I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak’st . 	I have half a mind to hit you before you speak again . 
yet if thou say Antony lives ,  is well ,  Or friends with Caesar ,  or not captive to him ,  I’ll set thee in a shower of gold and hail Rich pearls upon thee . 	but if Antony is alive ,  healthy ,  friendly with Caesar ,  and not Caesar’s prisoner ,  I’ll shower you with gold and pearls . 
madam ,  he’s well . 	madam ,  he’s well . 
well said . 	that’s well spoken . 
and friends with Caesar . 	and he’s friendly with Caesar . 
th’ art an honest man . 	you are an honest man . 
caesar and he are greater friends than ever . 	caesar and he are better friends than ever . 
make thee a fortune from me . 	I’m going to make you a rich man . 
but yet ,  madam— I do not like  “ But yet .  ”  It does allay The good precedence . 	but yet ,  madam— I don’t like the sound of  “ but yet .  ”  It reverses all the good that came before it . 
fie upon  “ But yet .  ”   “ But yet ”  is as a jailer to bring forth Some monstrous malefactor . 	damn those words ,   “ but yet !  ”   “ But yet ”  is like a jailer about to bring out some horrible criminal . 
prithee ,  friend ,  Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear ,  The good and bad together . 	please ,  my friend ,  give me all the news ,  both good and bad ,  at the same time . 
he’s friends with Caesar ,  In state of health ,  thou say’st ,  and ,  thou say’st ,  free . 	you say he’s friendly with Caesar ,  healthy ,  and free . 
free ,  madam ,  no . 	I didn’t say free ,  madam . 
I made no such report . 	no ,  I didn’t say that . 
he’s bound unto Octavia . 	he’s bound to Octavia . 
for what good turn ? 	for what favor ? 
for the best turn i’ th’ bed . 	for the favor of sleeping in her bed . 
I am pale ,  Charmian . 	I’m sick ,  Charmian . 
madam ,  he’s married to Octavia . 	he’s married to Octavia ,  madam . 
the most infectious pestilence upon thee ! 	may you die of the worst disease ! 
good madam ,  patience . 	good madam ,  be patient . 
what say you ? 	what did you say to me ? 
hence ,  horrible villain ,  or I’ll spurn thine eyes Like balls before me ! 	get out ,  you horrible bastard ,  or I’ll gouge out your eyes . 
I’ll unhair thy head ! 	I’ll scalp you . 
thou shalt be whipped with wire and stewed in brine ,  Smarting in ling’ring pickle ! 	I’ll have you whipped with wire and soaked in brine like a pickle ,  making your pain linger . 
say ’tis not so ,  a province I will give thee And make thy fortunes proud . 	If you say it isn’t true ,  I’ll give you a province and make you rich . 
the blow thou hadst Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage ,  And I will boot thee with what gift beside Thy modesty can beg . 	the blows I gave you already will make up for your upsetting me . 
he’s married ,  madam . 	he’s married ,  madam . 
rogue ,  thou hast lived too long . 	rogue ,  you’ve lived too long ! 
nay then ,  I’ll run . 	no way ,  then ,  I’ll run . 
what mean you ,  madam ? 	what’s the matter with you ,  madam ? 
I have made no fault . 	I haven’t done anything to you . 
good madam ,  keep yourself within yourself . 	good madam ,  restrain yourself . 
the man is innocent . 	the man hasn’t done anything wrong . 
some innocents ’scape not the thunderbolt . 	even innocents cannot always escape disaster . 
melt Egypt into Nile ,  and kindly creatures Turn all to serpents . 	may Egypt drown in the Nile and all good creatures turn into poisonous snakes . 
call the slave again . 	call that servant back . 
though I am mad ,  I will not bite him . 	even though I’m mad ,  I won’t bite him . 
call ! 	call him ! 
he is afeard to come . 	he’s afraid to come in . 
I will not hurt him . 	I won’t hurt him . 
these hands do lack nobility that they strike A meaner than myself ,  since I myself Have given myself the cause . 	my hands are tainted if they hit an inferior ,  especially since I myself am the cause of my own distress . 
come hither ,  sir . 	come here ,  sir . 
though it be honest ,  it is never good To bring bad news . 	It may be honest ,  but it’s never wise to bring bad news . 
give to a gracious message An host of tongues ,  but let ill tidings tell Themselves when they be felt . 	you can give good news in many ways ,  but let bad news interpret itself as you tell it . 
I have done my duty . 	I’ve only done my duty . 
Is he married ? 	Is he married ? 
the gods confound thee ! 	may the gods destroy you ! 
dost thou hold there still ? 	do you maintain the same story ? 
should I lie ,  madam ? 	do you want me to lie ,  madam ? 
go ,  get thee hence . 	go ,  get out ! 
I crave your highness’ pardon . 	even if you were as handsome as  I beg your highness’ pardon . 
he is married ? 	Is he really married ? 
take no offense that I would not offend you . 	please don’t be offended that I don’t want to offend you any more . 
to punish me for what you make me do Seems much unequal . 	It’s not fair to punish me for something you make me do . 
he’s married to Octavia . 	he’s married to Octavia . 
oh ,  that his fault should make a knave of thee ,  That art not what th’ art sure of ! 	It’s too bad that Antony’s fault should make you look like a jerk . 
get thee hence . 	go away . 
the merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome Are all too dear for me . 	the merchandise you bring from Rome is too expensive for me . 
lie they upon thy hand And be undone by ’em ! 	let it stay in your inventory until it bankrupts you . 
good your highness ,  patience . 	be patient ,  your highness . 
In praising Antony ,  I have dispraised Caesar . 	when I have praised Antony ,  I’ve disparaged Caesar . 
many times ,  madam . 	many times ,  madam . 
I am paid for ’t now . 	I’m being repaid for that now . 
lead me from hence . 	help me out of here . 
o Iras ,  Charmian ! 	oh ,  Iras ,  Charmian ! 
tis no matter . — Go to the fellow ,  good Alexas . 	It doesn’t matter . 
bid him Report the feature of Octavia: her years ,  Her inclination . 	how old is she ? 
let him not leave out The color of her hair . 	don’t let him leave out the color of her hair . 
bring me word how tall she is . 	bring me his answers quickly . 
lead me to my chamber . 	even though half of him is like a
lord Alexas ,  sweet Alexas ,  most anything Alexas ,  almost most absolute Alexas ,  where’s the soothsayer that you praised so to th’ Queen ? 	lord Alexas ,  sweet Alexas ,  most anything Alexas ,  almost the most consummate Alexas ,  where’s the fortuneteller you recommended so highly to the Queen ? 
oh that I knew this husband ,  which ,  you say ,  must charge his horns with garlands ! 	oh ,  I only wish I knew the name of that husband you said he predicted will have a cheating wife ! 
I make not ,  but foresee . 	I don’t make fortunes; I only see them . 
pray ,  then ,  foresee me one . 	then see a good one for me . 
no ,  you shall paint when you are old . 	no ,  he means you’ll use makeup when you’re old . 
wrinkles forbid ! 	may my wrinkles forbid that ! 
vex not his prescience . 	don’t joke about his predictions . 
be attentive . 	pay attention . 
hush ! 	quiet ! 
you shall be more beloving than beloved . 	you will love more than you are loved . 
most meet That first we come to words ,  and therefore have we Our written purposes before us sent ,  Which ,  if thou hast considered ,  let us know If ’twill tie up thy discontented sword And carry back to Sicily much tall youth That else must perish here . 	It’s proper that we speak first ,  which is why we sent our proposals ahead of us for your consideration . 
what was ’t That moved pale Cassius to conspire ? 	why did Cassius conspire against Caesar ? 
take your time . 	take your time . 
thou canst not fear us ,  Pompey ,  with thy sails . 	pompey ,  you cannot frighten us with your navy . 
we’ll speak with thee at sea . 	we’ll meet you at sea . 
at land ,  thou know’st How much we do o’ercount thee . 	yes ,  on land you do outnumber me . 
at land indeed Thou dost o’ercount me of my father’s house ,  But since the cuckoo builds not for himself ,  Remain in ’t as thou mayst . 	even more since you annexed my father’s house and lands . 
be pleased to tell us— For this is from the present—how you take The offers we have sent you . 	but since ,   To get back to the matter at hand ,  what do you think of our proposal ? 
there’s the point . 	that’s the point . 
which do not be entreated to ,  but weigh What it is worth embraced . 	don’t let us talk you into anything ,  but consider carefully the value of our offers . 
you have made me offer Of Sicily ,  Sardinia . 	you have offered me the lands of Sicily and Sardinia . 
and I must Rid all the sea of pirates ,  then ,  to send Measures of wheat to Rome . 	In return ,  I must clear the sea of pirates and send tributes of wheat to Rome . 
this ’greed upon To part with unhacked edges and bear back Our targes undinted . 	If I agree to this ,  we may leave unharmed ,  with our shields undented . 
that’s our offer . 	that’s our offer . 
know then I came before you here a man prepared To take this offer ,  but Mark Antony Put me to some impatience . 	you should know that when I came here I was prepared to accept your offer . 
let me have your hand . 	let me shake your hand . 
I did not think ,  sir ,  to have met you here . 	I didn’t think I would see you here . 
the beds i’ th’ East are soft ,  and thanks to you ,  That called me timelier than my purpose hither ,  For I have gained by ’t . 	the East is very seductive . 
well ,  I know not What counts harsh Fortune casts upon my face ,  But in my bosom shall she never come To make my heart her vassal . 	well ,  I cannot tell how my difficult life has weathered my face ,  but I will never let those difficulties subdue my courage . 
well met here . 	It’s good we had this meeting . 
I hope so ,  Lepidus . 	I hope it works out for the best ,  Lepidus . 
thus we are agreed . 	so we are in agreement . 
that’s the next to do . 	that’s the next thing on the agenda . 
we’ll feast each other ere we part ,  and let’s Draw lots who shall begin . 	we’ll have celebration feasts for each other before we go our separate ways . 
that will I ,  Pompey . 	I’ll give the first one ,  Pompey . 
no ,  Antony ,  take the lot . 	no ,  Antony . 
but ,  first or last ,  Your fine Egyptian cookery shall have The fame . 	whether your banquet is first or last ,  your Egyptian cooking will make it the best . 
I have heard that Julius Caesar Grew fat with feasting there . 	I heard that Julius Caesar got fat from all the feasting there . 
you have heard much . 	you’ve heard a lot . 
I have fair meanings ,  sir . 	I mean well ,  sir . 
and fair words to them . 	I’m sure you do . 
then so much have I heard . 	I’ve heard a lot more . 
and I have heard Apollodorus carried—                                                                               What ,  I pray you ? 	I heard that Apollodorus carried—   What did he carry ,  please ? 
how far’st thou ,  soldier ? 	how are you ,  soldier ? 
well ,  And well am like to do ,  for I perceive ,  Four feasts are toward . 	I’m well ,  and probably will be for a while ,  as I hear that four feasts are being prepared . 
let me shake thy hand . 	let me shake your hand . 
I never hated thee . 	I’ve never been your enemy . 
I have seen thee fight When I have envied thy behavior . 	I’ve seen you fight and envied your skill . 
sir ,  I never loved you much ,  but I ha’ praised ye When you have well deserved ten times as much As I have said you did . 	sir ,  I wouldn’t say I was your friend ,  but I’ve praised you when you deserved ten times more praise than I gave . 
enjoy thy plainness . 	enjoy your frankness; it suits you . 
It nothing ill becomes thee . — Aboard my galley I invite you all . 	I invite you all aboard my ship . 
will you lead ,  lords ? 	after you ,  my lords ? 
show ’s the way ,  sir . 	show us the way ,  sir . 
come . 	come with me . 
at sea ,  I think . 	I think it was at sea . 
we have ,  sir . 	that it was ,  sir . 
you have done well by water . 	you’ve done well at sea . 
and you by land . 	and you’ve done well on land . 
I will praise any man that will praise me ,  though it cannot be denied what I have done by land . 	I’ll flatter anyone who flatters me—though what I’ve accomplished on land cannot be denied . 
nor what I have done by water . 	neither can my accomplishments at sea . 
yes ,  something you can deny for your own safety: you have been a great thief by sea . 	yes ,  for your own safety ,  you should deny one thing: you have been a great thief at sea . 
and you by land . 	as you were on land . 
there I deny my land service . 	that’s the one part of my service on land I do deny . 
but give me your hand ,  Menas . 	but let’s shake hands ,  Menas . 
If our eyes had authority ,  here they might take two thieves kissing . 	If our eyes were policemen ,  they might capture two thieves at once while we’re embracing . 
all men’s faces are true ,  whatsome’er their hands are . 	men’s faces are truthful ,  whatever their hands do . 
but there is never a fair woman has a true face . 	but no beautiful woman has an honest face . 
no slander . 	that’s no lie . 
they steal hearts . 	they steal hearts . 
we came hither to fight with you . 	we came here to fight against you . 
for my part ,  I am sorry it is turned to a drinking . 	for my part ,  I’m sorry this battle turned into a drinking match . 
pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune . 	today Pompey laughs away his fortune . 
If he do ,  sure he cannot weep ’t back again . 	If that’s true ,  he won’t get it back by crying . 
you’ve said ,  sir . 	that’s the truth ,  sir . 
we looked not for Mark Antony here . 	we didn’t expect Mark Antony to be here . 
pray you ,  is he married to Cleopatra ? 	Is he married to Cleopatra ? 
caesar’s sister is called Octavia . 	caesar’s sister is named Octavia . 
true ,  sir . 	that’s true ,  sir . 
she was the wife of Caius Marcellus . 	she was previously Caius Marcellus’ wife . 
but she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius . 	but she is now Mark Antony’s wife . 
pray ye ,  sir ? 	excuse me ,  sir ? 
tis true . 	It’s true . 
then is Caesar and he forever knit together . 	then Caesar and he will always be united . 
If I were bound to divine of this unity ,  I would not prophesy so . 	If I were to make a prediction regarding this union ,  I wouldn’t say that . 
I think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage than the love of the parties . 	I think the marriage was made more for political reasons than for love . 
I think so too . 	I think so too . 
but you shall find the band that seems to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of their amity . 	but you’ll see that the very thing that joins them will be the thing that separates them . 
octavia is of a holy ,  cold ,  and still conversation . 	octavia has a pious ,  chaste ,  meek disposition . 
who would not have his wife so ? 	doesn’t everyone want a wife like that ? 
not he that himself is not so ,  which is Mark Antony . 	not someone who doesn’t share that disposition ,  meaning Mark Antony . 
he will to his Egyptian dish again . 	he’ll go back to his Egyptian dish . 
then shall the sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Caesar ,  and ,  as I said before ,  that which is the strength of their amity shall prove the immediate author of their variance . 	then Octavia’s complaints will rouse Caesar ,  and as I said before ,  the thing that brought them together will part them . 
antony will use his affection where it is . 	antony will go where his passion is . 
he married but his occasion here . 	he only married out of political necessity . 
and thus it may be . 	then that’s the way it may turn out . 
come ,  sir ,  will you aboard ? 	come on ,  sir ,  will you come aboard ? 
I have a health for you . 	I want to drink your health . 
I shall take it ,  sir . 	I’ll join you ,  sir . 
we have used our throats in Egypt . 	we did a lot of drinking in Egypt . 
come ,  let’s away . 	let’s go . 
here they’ll be ,  man . 	here’s where they’ll end up ,  on the floor . 
some o’ their plants are ill - rooted already . 	some of them are leaning already . 
lepidus is high - colored . 	lepidus is red in the face . 
they have made him drink alms - drink . 	they made him drink the leftover wine usually given to the poor . 
I had as lief have a reed that will do me no service as a partisan I could not heave . 	I’d rather carry a reed that obviously can’t protect me than a sword I cannot lift . 
thus do they ,  sir: they take the flow o’ th’ Nile By certain scales i’ th’ Pyramid . 	this is how they do it ,  sir: they measure the depth of the Nile ,  according to certain marks made on the walls of the Pyramid . 
they know By th’ height ,  the lowness ,  or the mean ,  if dearth Or foison follow . 	they know by those measurements if there will be famine or plenty . 
the higher Nilus swells The more it promises . 	the higher the Nile flows ,  the better the harvest . 
as it ebbs ,  the seedsman Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain ,  And shortly comes to harvest . 	the harvest comes shortly after that . 
you’ve strange serpents there ? 	do you have unusual snakes there ? 
ay ,  Lepidus . 	yes ,  Lepidus . 
your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the operation of your sun . 	the Egyptian snake is born when the sun shines on the Nile mud ,  just like the crocodile . 
I am not so well as I should be ,  but I’ll ne’er out . 	I don’t feel so well ,  but I won’t stop . 
not till you have slept . 	not until you pass out . 
I fear me you’ll be in till then . 	I’m afraid you’ll keep going until then . 
nay ,  certainly ,  I have heard the Ptolemies’ pyramises are very goodly things . 	I’ve heard that the pyramids build by the Ptolemies are splendid . 
without contradiction I have heard that . 	without doubt I’ve heard that . 
what manner o’ thing is your crocodile ? 	what does a crocodile look like ? 
It is shaped ,  sir ,  like itself ,  and it is as broad as it hath breadth . 	sir ,  it’s shaped like itself and is as wide as it has width . 
It is just so high as it is ,  and moves with its own organs . 	It is only as high as it is and moves with its own legs . 
of it own color too . 	Its own color . 
tis a strange serpent . 	It’s a strange snake . 
tis so . 	It is that . 
and the tears of it are wet . 	and its tears are wet . 
the matter ? 	what is it ? 
I have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes . 	I’ve always had great respect for your destiny . 
thou hast served me with much faith . 	you’ve served me faithfully . 
what’s else to say ? —                                                          These quicksands ,  Lepidus ,  Keep off them ,  for you sink . 	what else can I say ? 
what sayst thou ? 	what are you saying ? 
wilt thou be lord of the whole world ? 	would you like to be king of the entire world ? 
that’s twice . 	now I’ve said it twice . 
how should that be ? 	how could that happen ? 
nay ,  hear him . 	just listen to him . 
good now ,  some excellent fortune ! 	be kind now and tell me some excellent fortune . 
let me be married to three kings in a forenoon and widow them all . 	tell me that I’ll marry three kings before noon and be widowed by all of them . 
oh ,  excellent ! 	oh ,  excellent ! 
then belike my children shall have no names . 	then my children will probably be illegitimate . 
prithee ,  how many boys and wenches must I have ? 	tell me ,  please: how many boys and girls will I have ? 
If every of your wishes had a womb ,  And fertile every wish ,  a million . 	If every time you wished for a child you could have had one ,  you would have a million children . 
you think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes . 	you seem to think no one outside of your bedroom knows what you wish . 
we’ll know all our fortunes . 	we’ll all want our fortune told . 
mine ,  and most of our fortunes tonight ,  shall be—drunk to bed . 	my fortune—like that of many of us tonight—is to go drunk to bed . 
hast thou drunk well ? 	are you drunk ? 
no ,  Pompey ,  I have kept me from the cup . 	no ,  Pompey ,  I haven’t had anything to drink . 
show me which way . 	tell me how . 
these three world - sharers ,  these competitors ,  Are in thy vessel . 	the three who share the known world are aboard your boat . 
all there is thine . 	everything that belongs to them is yours . 
ah ,  this thou shouldst have done And not have spoke on ’t ! 	oh ,  you should have done it without telling me ! 
In me ’tis villainy ,  In thee ’t had been good service . 	for you to do it would be good service . 
thou must know ,  ’Tis not my profit that does lead mine honor; Mine honor ,  it . 	you should know that to me ,  profit isn’t more important than honor ,  but the other way around . 
repent that e’er thy tongue Hath so betrayed thine act . 	regret that your mouth betrayed your actions . 
being done unknown ,  I should have found it afterwards well done ,  But must condemn it now . 	but now I must condemn it . 
desist ,  and drink . 	give it up and go drink . 
this health to Lepidus ! 	this toast is for Lepidus ! 
here’s to thee ,  Menas ! 	here’s to you ,  Menas . 
enobarbus ,  welcome . 	I accept with thanks ,  Enobarbus . 
there’s a strong fellow ,  Menas . 	there goes a strong fellow ,  Menas . 
why ? 	why do you say that ? 
he bears The third part of the world ,  man . 	he carries a third of the world . 
seest not ? 	can’t you see that ? 
the third part ,  then ,  is drunk . 	then a third of the world is drunk . 
drink thou . 	drink up . 
come . 	all right ,  then . 
this is not yet an Alexandrian feast . 	this hasn’t reached the level of an Egyptian feast yet . 
It ripens towards it . 	It’s getting there . 
strike the vessels ,  ho ! 	clink your cups together in a toast ! 
here’s to Caesar . 	here’s to Caesar . 
I could well forbear ’t . 	I could do without another toast . 
be a child o’ th’ time . 	live in the moment . 
but I had rather fast from all four days Than drink so much in one . 	but I would rather abstain from everything for four days than drink so much in one . 
let’s ha ’t ,  good soldier . 	let’s have one ,  good soldier . 
come ,  let’s all take hands Till that the conquering wine hath steeped our sense In soft and delicate Lethe . 	come ,  let’s join our hands until the overpowering wine makes us soft and forgetful . 
all take hands . 	everyone join hands . 
what needs more words ? 	how can you top that ? 
good night . 	good night ,  Pompey . 
and shall ,  sir . 	yes ,  we will . 
give ’s your hand . 	let’s shake on it . 
we are friends . 	we’re friends ! 
come ,  down into the boat . 	come ,  this way to the rowboat . 
take heed you fall not . 	be careful not to fall in . 
menas ,  I’ll not on shore . 	menas ,  I’m not going back on shore . 
no ,  to my cabin . 	no ,  come to my cabin . 
what ! 	what do you say ? 
there’s my cap . 	there’s my hat ! 
hoo ! 	hooray ! 
noble captain ,  come . 	come on ,  noble captain . 
now ,  darting Parthia ,  art thou struck ,  and now Pleased fortune does of Marcus Crassus’ death Make me revenger . 	now I’ve paid you back ,  Parthia ,  and gotten revenge for Marcus Crassus’ death . 
for learn this ,  Silius: Better to leave undone than by our deed Acquire too high a fame when him we serve’s away . 	you must understand ,  Silius ,  that it’s better to leave something undone than achieve too much fame in your superior’s absence . 
caesar and Antony have ever won More in their officer than person . 	caesar and Antony have always achieved more by delegating authority to their officers than by leading their troops in person . 
who does i’ th’ wars more than his captain can Becomes his captain’s captain; and ambition ,  The soldier’s virtue ,  rather makes choice of loss Than gain which darkens him . 	a man who achieves more in war than his captain does becomes his captain’s rival . 
I could do more to do Antonius good ,  But ’twould offend him ,  and in his offense Should my performance perish . 	I could do more to help Antony ,  but to do so would insult him . 
thou hast ,  Ventidius ,  that Without the which a soldier and his sword Grants scarce distinction . 	a soldier is just a tool ,  like his sword ,  unless he has your qualities ,  Ventidius . 
thou wilt write to Antony ? 	are you going to write Antony about this ? 
I’ll humbly signify what in his name ,  That magical word of war ,  we have effected: How with his banners and his well - paid ranks The ne’er - yet - beaten horse of Parthia We have jaded out o’ th’ field . 	I’ll write how ,  under his flag and with his well - paid troops ,  we have beaten the formerly unvanquished Parthia . 
where is he now ? 	where’s Antony now ? 
what ,  are the brothers parted ? 	did the brothers - in - law leave ? 
they have dispatched with Pompey; he is gone . 	they finished their business with Pompey ,  and Pompey has left . 
octavia weeps To part from Rome . 	octavia weeps at the thought of leaving Rome . 
caesar is sad ,  and Lepidus ,  Since Pompey’s feast ,  as Menas says ,  is troubled With the greensickness . 	caesar is in a sober mood . 
a very fine one . 	he’s a stylish man . 
oh ,  how he loves Caesar ! 	and how he loves Caesar ! 
nay ,  but how dearly he adores Mark Antony ! 	yes ,  but how he adores Mark Antony ! 
caesar ? 	caesar ? 
what’s Antony ? 	then what’s Antony ? 
the god of Jupiter . 	a god of a god ? 
spake you of Caesar ? 	are you talking about Caesar ? 
how ,  the nonpareil ! 	he’s without equal ! 
o Antony ,  O thou Arabian bird ! 	oh ,  Antony ! 
would you praise Caesar ,  say  “ Caesar .  ”  Go no further . 	oh ,  you  If you want to praise Caesar ,  just say his name—that’s all the praise that’s necessary . 
Indeed ,  he plied them both with excellent praises . 	he certainly flattered them both with extravagant compliments . 
but he loves Caesar best; yet he loves Antony . 	he loves Caesar best ,  but he also loves Antony . 
hoo ! 	oh ! 
hearts ,  tongues ,  figures ,  scribes ,  bards ,  poets ,  cannot Think ,  speak ,  cast ,  write ,  sing ,  number—hoo ! — His love to Antony . 	hearts cannot think it ,  tongues cannot speak it ,  meas - urements cannot calculate it ,  scribes cannot write it ,  bards cannot sing it ,  and poets cannot make verses about it . 
both he loves . 	he loves them both . 
they are his shards ,  and he	they are his dung ,  and he their beetle . 
so ,  This is to horse . 	so ,  there’s the signal to ride . 
adieu ,  noble Agrippa . 	good - bye ,  noble Agrippa . 
good fortune ,  worthy soldier ,  and farewell . 	good luck ,  worthy soldier ,  and good - bye . 
no further ,  sir . 	you can’t go any further with us ,  sir . 
for better might we Have loved without this mean ,  if on both parts This be not cherished . 	If you and I don’t value her equally ,  it would be better for us to work out our differences without her . 
make me not offended In your distrust . 	don’t insult me with your distrust . 
I have said . 	I mean what I say . 
you shall not find ,  Though you be therein curious ,  the least cause For what you seem to fear . 	you won’t find any cause for anxiety ,  even if you look for one . 
so the gods keep you And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends . 	so ,  may the gods protect you and change the hearts of the Romans so that they turn and give you their support . 
we will here part . 	we’ll leave you here . 
farewell ,  my dearest sister ,  fare thee well . 	good - bye ,  my dearest sister ,  good - bye . 
the elements be kind to thee and make Thy spirits all of comfort ! 	I hope you have good weather to set your mind at ease . 
fare thee well . 	farewell . 
my noble brother ! 	my noble brother ! 
the April’s in her eyes; it is love’s spring ,  And these the showers to bring it on . 	her eyes are like April: full of showers . 
what ,  Octavia ? 	what is it ,  Octavia ? 
I’ll tell you in your ear . 	I’ll tell you privately . 
look ,  here I have you . 	see ,  now I have you . 
thus I let you go And give you to the gods . 	and thus I let you go and give you to the gods . 
adieu . 	good - bye . 
be happy . 	be happy . 
farewell ,  farewell . 	farewell ,  farewell . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
e’en as the o’erflowing Nilus presageth famine . 	like the  Oh stop it ,  you lusty bed - hopper . 
go ,  you wild bedfellow ,  you cannot soothsay . 	you can’t see the future . 
nay ,  if an oily palm be not a fruitful prognostication ,  I cannot scratch mine ear . —Prithee ,  tell her but a workaday fortune . 	well ,  if a moist palm isn’t a clear sign of promiscuity ,  then I can’t scratch my own ear . 
your fortunes are alike . 	your fortunes are the same . 
but how ,  but how ? 	but how ? 
give me particulars . 	give me details . 
I have said . 	I’ve said what I have to say . 
am I not an inch of fortune better than she ? 	Isn’t my fortune just a little better than hers ? 
well ,  if you were but an inch of fortune better than I ,  where would you choose it ? 	well ,  if you could have just an inch of better fortune than me ,  where would you like the improvement ? 
not in my husband’s nose . 	not in my husband’s nose . 
our worser thoughts heavens mend . 	may heaven save us from indecent thoughts ! 
alexas ! 	alexas ! 
for ,  as it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man loose - wived ,  so it is a deadly sorrow to behold a foul knave uncuckolded . 	If it’s sad to see a handsome man with a cheating wife ,  it’s a tragedy to see an ugly thug with a wife who’s faithful . 
therefore ,  dear Isis ,  keep decorum ,  and fortune him accordingly . 	therefore ,  dear Isis ,  do the right thing and give him the fortune he deserves . 
where is the fellow ? 	where is that messenger ? 
half afeard to come . 	he’s afraid to come in . 
go to ,  go to . —Come hither ,  sir . 	oh ,  come on . —Come here ,  sir . 
good majesty ,  Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you But when you are well pleased . 	gracious Queen ,  even Herod of Judea wouldn’t dare look at you unless you were in a good mood . 
that Herod’s head I’ll have ! 	I’ll have Herod’s head chopped off ! 
most gracious majesty ! 	most formidable Queen ! 
didst thou behold Octavia ? 	did you see Octavia ? 
ay ,  dread Queen . 	yes ,  revered Queen . 
where ? 	where ? 
madam ,  in Rome . 	In Rome ,  Madam . 
I looked her in the face ,  and saw her led Between her brother and Mark Antony . 	I saw her face as she walked with her brother and Mark Antony . 
Is she as tall as me ? 	Is she as tall as I am ? 
she is not ,  madam . 	she is not ,  madam . 
didst hear her speak ? 	did you hear her speak ? 
Is she shrill - tongued or low ? 	Is her voice pitched high or low ? 
madam ,  I heard her speak . 	madam ,  I heard her speak . 
she is low - voiced . 	she has a low - pitched voice . 
that’s not so good . 	that’s not in her favor . 
he cannot like her long . 	he can’t like her very long . 
like her ? 	like her ? 
o Isis ,  ’tis impossible . 	oh ,  Isis ,  that’s impossible . 
I think so ,  Charmian . 	you’re right ,  Charmian . 
she creeps . 	she creeps along . 
she shows a body rather than a life ,  A statue than a breather . 	she has a body ,  not a life . 
Is this certain ? 	Is this true ? 
or I have no observance . 	If not ,  then I have no powers of observation . 
three in Egypt Cannot make better note . 	there aren’t three people in all of Egypt who could do better . 
there’s nothing in her yet . 	she doesn’t have anything going for her so far . 
the fellow has good judgment . 	this messenger is wise . 
excellent . 	very wise . 
charmian ,  hark . 	do you hear that ,  Charmian ? 
and I do think she’s thirty . 	and I think she’s at least thirty . 
bear’st thou her face in mind ? 	do you remember her face ? 
Is ’t long or round ? 	was it long or round ? 
round ,  even to faultiness . 	round enough to be unattractive . 
for the most part ,  too ,  they are foolish that are so . 	usually that means a person is foolish . 
her hair ,  what color ? 	what color is her hair ? 
brown ,  madam ,  and her forehead As low as she would wish it . 	brown ,  madam ,  and she wouldn’t want her forehead to be any lower . 
thou must not take my former sharpness ill . 	you mustn’t hold my earlier outburst against me . 
I will employ thee back again; I find thee Most fit for business . 	I’ll hire you again to go back to Rome . 
go make thee ready; Our letters are prepared . 	my letters are ready to go . 
a proper man . 	he’s an admirable man . 
Indeed ,  he is so . 	he certainly is . 
I repent me much That so I harried him . 	I’m very sorry I was so hard on him . 
nothing ,  madam . 	not a bit ,  madam . 
all may be well enough . 	everything may still be all right . 
I warrant you ,  madam . 	I assure you it is ,  madam . 
o my good lord ,  Believe not all ,  or ,  if you must believe ,  Stomach not all . 	oh ,  dear husband ,  don’t believe everything you hear—or if you must believe it ,  don’t let it all make you angry . 
a more unhappy lady ,  If this division chance ,  ne’er stood between ,  Praying for both parts . 	no lady could be more miserable than I if you two disagree . 
gentle Octavia ,  Let your best love draw to that point which seeks Best to preserve it . 	gentle Octavia ,  support the one that supports you . 
the meantime ,  lady ,  I’ll raise the preparation of a war Shall stain your brother . 	In the meantime ,  I’ll raise an army that will surpass his . 
the Jove of power make me most weak ,  most weak ,  Your reconciler ! 	may the god of power make me ,  the weakest of the weak ,  your mediator . 
when it appears to you where this begins ,  Turn your displeasure that way ,  for our faults Can never be so equal that your love Can equally move with them . 	when you find out who started this disagreement ,  turn your anger upon them . 
provide your going; Choose your own company and command what cost Your heart has mind to . 	order supplies for your trip and choose your traveling companions . 
how now ,  friend Eros ! 	how goes it ,  friend Eros ? 
there’s strange news come ,  sir . 	some startling news has just arrived ,  sir . 
what ,  man ? 	what news ,  man ? 
caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey . 	caesar and Lepidus declared war against Pompey . 
this is old . 	that’s old news . 
what is the success ? 	who’s winning ? 
so the poor third is up ,  till death enlarge his confine . 	so the weak third of the triumvirate is imprisoned until death frees him . 
then ,  world ,  thou hast a pair of chaps ,  no more ,  And throw between them all the food thou hast ,  They’ll grind the one the other . 	and even if you throw everything you possess to the two of them ,  they’ll battle each other to the death to have it all . 
where’s Antony ? 	where’s Antony ? 
more ,  Domitius: My lord desires you presently . 	another thing ,  Domitius: Antony wants to see you now . 
my news I might have told hereafter . 	I should have waited to tell you my news . 
twill be naught ,  But let it be . 	but never mind . 
bring me to Antony . 	take me to Antony . 
come ,  sir . 	come with me ,  sir . 
contemning Rome ,  he has done all this and more In Alexandria . 	In Alexandria he condemned Rome ,  and that’s not all . 
here’s the manner of ’t: I’ th’ marketplace ,  on a tribunal silvered ,  Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold Were publicly enthroned . 	this is what happened: he and Cleopatra sat on chairs of gold on a silver - covered stage in the marketplace . 
this in the public eye ? 	he did this in public ? 
she In th’ habiliments of the goddess Isis That day appeared ,  and oft before gave audience ,  As ’tis reported ,  so . 	he gave Syria ,  Cilicia ,  and Phoenicia to Ptolemy . 
let Rome be thus informed . 	let’s send this news to Rome . 
who ,  queasy with his insolence already ,  Will their good thoughts call from him . 	the Roman people are fed up with his arrogance already . 
the people knows it ,  and have now received His accusations . 	the people have heard it already ,  and they’ve been told of his accusations . 
who does he accuse ? 	who does he accuse ? 
caesar ,  and that ,  having in Sicily Sextus Pompeius spoiled ,  we had not rated him His part o’ th’ isle . 	he accuses me of withholding his share of Sextus Pompeius’ possessions ,  which we seized in Sicily . 
then does he say he lent me Some shipping ,  unrestored . 	then he says I didn’t return some ships he loaned me . 
sir ,  this should be answered . 	sir ,  these accusations should be answered . 
tis done already ,  and the messenger gone . 	It has been done already ,  and the messenger is on his way . 
I have told him ,  Lepidus was grown too cruel ,  That he his high authority abused And did deserve his change . 	I answered that Lepidus had become too brutal and abused his position . 
he’ll never yield to that . 	he’ll never agree to that . 
nor must not then be yielded to in this . 	then we won’t agree to his demands . 
hail ,  Caesar ,  and my lord ! 	greetings ,  Caesar ,  my lord ! 
hail ,  most dear Caesar ! 	greetings ,  dearest Caesar ! 
that ever I should call thee castaway ! 	oh ,  to think you’ve been rejected ! 
you have not called me so ,  nor have you cause . 	you’ve never thought of me like that ,  and you have no reason to . 
why have you stol’n upon us thus ? 	then why did you travel so quietly ? 
you come not Like Caesar’s sister . 	you didn’t arrive like Caesar’s sister . 
the wife of Antony Should have an army for an usher and The neighs of horse to tell of her approach Long ere she did appear . 	antony’s wife should have an army to escort her ,  with neighing horses to announce her arrival long before she appears . 
nay ,  the dust Should have ascended to the roof of heaven ,  Raised by your populous troops . 	the dust from your attending troops should have risen to heaven . 
we should have met you By sea and land ,  supplying every stage With an augmented greeting . 	I would have met you by sea and again by land . 
my lord ,  Mark Antony ,  Hearing that you prepared for war ,  acquainted My grievèd ear withal ,  whereon I begged His pardon for return . 	mark Antony heard that you were preparing to wage war on him . 
which soon he granted ,  Being an obstruct ’tween his lust and him . 	which he quickly allowed ,  given that you’re an obstacle to his lust . 
amen . 	amen . 
hush ! 	quiet ! 
here comes Antony . 	here comes Antony . 
saw you my lord ? 	have you seen my lord ? 
no ,  lady . 	no ,  lady . 
was he not here ? 	wasn’t he here ? 
no ,  madam . 	no ,  madam . 
he was disposed to mirth ,  but on the sudden A Roman thought hath struck him . —Enobarbus ! 	he was in a good mood ,  and then suddenly he started thinking of Rome . 
madam ? 	madam ? 
here at your service . 	here ,  at your service . 
my lord approaches . 	here comes my lord . 
fulvia thy wife first came into the field . 	your wife ,  Fulvia ,  mustered her army first . 
against my brother Lucius ? 	against my brother Lucius ? 
ay . 	yes . 
do not say so ,  my lord . 	don’t say that ,  my lord . 
where is he now ? 	where do you think he is now ? 
my lord ,  in Athens . 	he’s in Athens ,  my lord . 
no ,  my most wrongèd sister . 	no ,  he’s not . 
cleopatra Hath nodded him to her . 	cleopatra summoned him . 
he hath given his empire Up to a whore; who now are levying The kings o’ th’ earth for war . 	he’s given his empire to a whore ,  and now they’re gathering kings to wage a war . 
he hath assembled Bocchus ,  the King of Libya; Archelaus ,  Of Cappadocia; Philadelphos ,  King Of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king ,  Adallas; King Manchus of Arabia; King of Pont; Herod of Jewry; Mithridates ,  King Of Comagen; Polemon and Amyntas ,  The Kings of Mede and Lycaonia ,  With a more larger list of scepters . 	he’s recruited Bocchus ,  the King of Libya; Archelaus of Cappadocia; Philadelphos ,  King of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king ,  Adallas; King Manchus of Arabia; the King of Pont; Herod ,  of Judea; Mithridates ,  King of Comagen; Polemon and Amyntas ,  the kings of Mede and Lycaonia ,  and many more . 
ay me ,  most wretched ,  That have my heart parted betwixt two friends That does afflict each other ! 	I’m divided between two friends who are determined to kill each other . 
welcome hither . 	you’re welcome here . 
your letters did withhold our breaking forth Till we perceived both how you were wrong led And we in negligent danger . 	I didn’t write about breaking the alliance with Antony until I saw you were being misled and realized how dangerous it would be to keep postponing preparations . 
cheer your heart . 	cheer yourself . 
best of comfort ,  And ever welcome to us . 	you will always be welcome to me . 
welcome ,  lady . 	welcome ,  lady . 
welcome ,  dear madam . 	welcome ,  dear madam . 
each heart in Rome does love and pity you . 	every heart in Rome loves and pities you . 
only th’ adulterous Antony ,  most large In his abominations ,  turns you off And gives his potent regiment to a trull That noises it against us . 	only the adulterous and abominable Antony abandons you ,  giving his power to a whore who turns that power against us . 
most certain . 	It’s undeniable . 
sister ,  welcome . 	you are welcome here ,  sister . 
pray you Be ever known to patience . 	I beg you to continue to be patient . 
my dear’st sister ! 	my dearest sister ! 
but why ,  why ,  why ? 	but why ,  why ,  why ? 
thou hast forspoke my being in these wars And sayst it is not fit . 	you opposed my taking part in the war . 
Is ’t not denounced against us ? 	Isn’t this war against me ? 
why should not we Be there in person ? 	why shouldn’t I be there in person ? 
what is ’t you say ? 	what do you mean ? 
sink Rome ! 	let Rome fall ! 
and their tongues rot That speak against us ! 	may the tongues of our critics rot ! 
a charge we bear i’ th’ war ,  And as the president of my kingdom will Appear there for a man . 	I have responsibilities in this war ,  and as the absolute ruler of my kingdom I will carry out my duties as if I were a man . 
speak not against it . 	don’t argue against it . 
I will not stay behind . 	I won’t stay behind . 
nay ,  I have done . 	no ,  I’ve had my say . 
here comes the Emperor . 	here comes the Emperor . 
Is it not strange ,  Canidius ,  That from Tarentum and Brundusium He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea And take in Toryne ? —You have heard on ’t ,  sweet ? 	Isn’t it strange ,  Canidius ,  that he could cross the Ionian Sea so quickly from Tarentum and Brundusium and take Toryne ? —Have you heard about this ,  sweet ? 
celerity is never more admired Than by the negligent . 	no one admires speed more than the lazy . 
by sea ,  what else ? 	what else ? 
why will My lord do so ? 	why do you want to do that ,  my lord ? 
for that he dares us to ’t . 	because he’s daring us to do it . 
so hath my lord dared him to single fight . 	so you’ve dared him to single combat . 
ay ,  and to wage this battle at Pharsalia ,  Where Caesar fought with Pompey . 	yes ,  and you dared Caesar to fight the battle at Pharsalia ,  where he fought against Pompey . 
but these offers ,  Which serve not for his vantage ,  he shakes off ,  And so should you . 	but Caesar ignores offers that don’t give him an advantage ,  and so should you . 
In Caesar’s fleet Are those that often have ’gainst Pompey fought . 	his ships are maneuverable . 
their ships are yare ,  yours ,  heavy . 	yours are slow and awkward . 
no disgrace Shall fall you for refusing him at sea ,  Being prepared for land . 	refusing to fight him at sea won’t disgrace you . 
I’ll fight at sea . 	I’ll fight at sea . 
but if we fail ,  We then can do ’t at land . 	even if we fail at that ,  we can still fight him on land . 
thy business ? 	what’s your business ? 
the news is true ,  my lord . 	the news is true ,  my lord . 
he is descried . 	he has captured Toryne . 
canidius ,  Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land ,  And our twelve thousand horse . 	canidius ,  take our nineteen
how now ,  worthy soldier ? 	what’s the news ,  brave soldier ? 
o noble Emperor ,  do not fight by sea ! 	oh ,  don’t fight by sea ,  noble Emperor ! 
trust not to rotten planks . 	don’t trust rotten planks . 
do you misdoubt This sword and these my wounds ? 	don’t you trust my sword and these wounds ? 
let th’ Egyptians And the Phoenicians go a - ducking . 	let the Egyptians and Phoenicians go swimming . 
we Have used to conquer standing on the earth And fighting foot to foot . 	we are used to winning by standing on the earth and fighting toe to toe . 
well ,  well ,  away . 	well ,  well ,  let’s go . 
by Hercules ,  I think I am i’ th’ right . 	by Hercules ,  I think I’m right . 
soldier ,  thou art; but his whole action grows Not in the power on ’t . 	soldier ,  you are . 
so our leader’s led ,  And we are women’s men . 	our leader is being led . 
you keep by land The legions and the horse whole ,  do you not ? 	on land you keep the legions and cavalry together ,  don’t you ? 
marcus Octavius ,  Marcus Justeius ,  Publicola ,  and Caelius ,  are for sea; But we keep whole by land . 	marcus Octavius ,  Marcus Justeius ,  Publicola ,  and Caelius will go by sea ,  but we’ll keep the bulk on land . 
this speed of Caesar’s Carries beyond belief . 	caesar’s speed defies belief . 
while he was yet in Rome His power went out in such distractions as Beguiled all spies . 	while he was still in Rome ,  he deployed his forces in so many different disguises that all our spies were fooled . 
who’s his lieutenant ,  hear you ? 	who’s his lieutenant ,  do you know ? 
they say ,  one Taurus . 	a man named Taurus ,  they say . 
well I know the man . 	I know the man well . 
the Emperor calls Canidius . 	the Emperor is calling for Canidius . 
with news the time’s with labor ,  and throws forth Each minute some . 	the present time is like a woman in labor ,  each minute giving birth to some piece of news . 
taurus ! 	taurus ! 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
strike not by land; keep whole . 	don’t attack by land . 
provoke not battle Till we have done at sea . 	don’t provoke them to battle until we have finished at sea . 
our fortune lies Upon this jump . 	our fate depends on this chance . 
set we our squadrons on yond side o’ th’ hill ,  In eye of Caesar’s battle ,  from which place We may the number of the ships behold And so proceed accordingly . 	assemble our squadrons on the other side of the hill ,  in sight of Caesar’s navy . 
I can behold no longer . 	I can’t watch any more . 
gods and goddesses ,  All the whole synod of them ! 	the Egyptian flagship ,  the  Gods and goddesses—the whole congregation of them ! 
what’s thy passion ? 	what’s wrong with you ? 
the greater cantle of the world is lost With very ignorance . 	we have lost a major portion of the world through utter foolishness . 
we have kissed away Kingdoms and provinces . 	we have kissed away entire kingdoms and provinces . 
how appears the fight ? 	how goes the battle ? 
yon ribaudred nag of Egypt— Whom leprosy o’ertake ! —i’ th’ midst o’ th’ fight ,  When vantage like a pair of twins appeared Both as the same ,  or rather ours the elder ,  The breeze upon her ,  like a cow in June ,  Hoists sails and flies . 	right in the middle of the fight ,  just when the battle could have gone either way—actually we had a slight advantage—that immoral Egyptian nag—May she die of leprosy ! —suddenly became frightened ,  and turned her ships around and fled . 
that I beheld . 	I saw that . 
mine eyes did sicken at the sight and could not Endure a further view . 	the sight made me so sick I couldn’t watch any more . 
well ,  what worst ? 	well ,  give me the worst news . 
the nature of bad news infects the teller . 	the bearer of bad news is often blamed for it . 
when it concerns the fool or coward . 	only if the hearer is a fool or a coward . 
on . 	go on . 
things that are past are done ,  with me . 	as far as I’m concerned ,  what’s past is done . 
tis thus: Who tells me true ,  though in his tale lie death ,  I hear him as he flattered . 	It’s like this: as long as a person tells me the truth ,  even though it means my death ,  I will listen as though he praised me . 
o my lord ! 	oh ,  my lord ! 
speak to me home . 	speak plainly . 
name Cleopatra as she is called in Rome . 	call Cleopatra what the Romans call her . 
oh ,  then we bring forth weeds When our quick minds lie still ,  and our ills told us Is as our earing . 	It’s easy to err when left to our own devices ,  but criticism helps us to see our faults and correct them . 
fare thee well awhile . 	good - bye for a while . 
I never saw an action of such shame . 	I never saw such a shameful act . 
experience ,  manhood ,  honor ,  ne’er before Did violate so itself . 	terrible . 
alack ,  alack ! 	terrible . 
our fortune on the sea is out of breath And sinks most lamentably . 	the battle on the sea is almost lost . 
had our general Been what he knew himself ,  it had gone well . 	If our general had been his old self ,  we would have won . 
oh ,  he has given example for our flight Most grossly by his own ! 	oh ,  with his sordid desertion ,  he sets the example for our own . 
ay ,  are you thereabouts ? 	are you considering desertion ,  as well ? 
why then ,  good night indeed . 	then everything must really be finished . 
toward Peloponnesus are they fled . 	they fled toward Peloponnesus . 
to Caesar will I render My legions and my horse . 	I’ll yield my legions and cavalry to Caesar . 
hark . 	listen . 
friends ,  come hither . 	friends ,  come here . 
I am so lated in the world that I Have lost my way forever . 	I’m completely lost . 
I have a ship Laden with gold . 	I have a ship full of treasure . 
fly And make your peace with Caesar . 	escape and make peace with Caesar . 
fly ? 	flee ? 
not we . 	not us . 
I have fled myself ,  and have instructed cowards To run and show their shoulders . 	I’ve told cowards to turn their backs on me and run . 
friends ,  begone . 	friends ,  go . 
I have myself resolved upon a course Which has no need of you . 	I’ve decided on a plan that doesn’t require your assistance . 
begone . 	leave . 
oh ,  I followed that I blush to look upon ! 	oh ,  I followed something I’m ashamed to look at now ! 
my very hairs do mutiny ,  for the white Reprove the brown for rashness ,  and they them For fear and doting . 	even my hair revolts . 
friends ,  begone . 	friends ,  go . 
you shall Have letters from me to some friends that will Sweep your way for you . 	I’ll give you letters of introduction to some friends of mine who will help you . 
pray you ,  look not sad ,  Nor make replies of loathness . 	please ,  don’t be sad ,  and don’t tell me how reluctant you are . 
take the hint Which my despair proclaims . 	take your cues from my own despair . 
let that be left Which leaves itself . 	abandon the person that has abandoned himself . 
to the seaside straightway ! 	go to the harbor immediately ! 
I will possess you of that ship and treasure . 	I’ll give you the title to that ship and its treasure . 
leave me ,  I pray ,  a little . 	just give me a moment ,  please—only a moment . 
pray you now ,  Nay ,  do so ,  for indeed I have lost command . 	I’ve relinquished my authority ,  so please—I’ll see you all before long . 
why ,  what else ? 	what else ? 
let me sit down . 	let me sit down . 
oh ,  fie ,  fie ,  fie ! 	oh ,  damn ,  damn ,  damn ! 
madam ! 	madam ! 
madam ,  O good Empress ! 	madam ,  oh ,  good Empress ! 
the Queen ,  my lord ,  the Queen . 	the Queen is here ,  my lord . 
go to him ,  madam ,  speak to him . 	go to him ,  madam ,  speak to him . 
he is unqualitied with very shame . 	he’s not himself because he feels so ashamed . 
well then ,  sustain me . 	well ,  then ,  help me . 
most noble sir ,  arise . 	most noble sir ,  stand up . 
the Queen approaches . 	the Queen is coming . 
her head’s declined ,  and death will seize her but Your comfort makes the rescue . 	she’s weak and will die unless you comfort her . 
I have offended reputation ,  A most unnoble swerving . 	I’ve destroyed my reputation ,  a most shameful error . 
sir ,  the Queen . 	sir ,  here’s the Queen . 
oh ,  whither hast thou led me ,  Egypt ? 	oh ,  where have you led me ,  Egypt ? 
o my lord ,  my lord ,  Forgive my fearful sails ! 	oh ,  my lord ,  my lord ,  forgive my panic ! 
I little thought You would have followed . 	I didn’t think you would follow me . 
egypt ,  thou knew’st too well My heart was to thy rudder tied by th’ strings ,  And thou shouldst tow me after . 	queen ,  you knew very well that my heart was tied to your ship and that you would pull me along with you . 
o’er my spirit Thy full supremacy thou knew’st ,  and that Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods Command me . 	you knew that my spirit was completely under your control and that I would ignore the gods’ orders in favor of yours . 
oh ,  my pardon ! 	oh ,  forgive me ! 
now I must To the young man send humble treaties ,  dodge And palter in the shifts of lowness ,  who With half the bulk o’ th’ world played as I pleased ,  Making and marring fortunes . 	now I will have to send my humble proposal of peace to that young man . 
you did know How much you were my conqueror ,  and that My sword ,  made weak by my affection ,  would Obey it on all cause . 	you knew that my sword ,  weakened by my love for you ,  would obey that love no matter what . 
fall not a tear ,  I say . 	don’t shed even one tear . 
one of them rates All that is won and lost . 	one of your tears is worth everything that was won and lost . 
give me a kiss . 	give me a kiss . 
even this repays me . — We sent our schoolmaster . 	this repays me . 
let him appear that’s come from Antony . 	let the envoy from Antony come in . 
know you him ? 	do you know him ? 
approach and speak . 	come forward and speak . 
such as I am ,  I come from Antony . 	humble as I am ,  I represent Antony . 
I was of late as petty to his ends As is the morn - dew on the myrtle leaf To his grand sea . 	until recently ,  I was as unimportant to his affairs as the morning dew is to the wide ocean . 
be ’t so . 	so be it . 
declare thine office . 	say what you’re here for . 
lord of his fortunes he salutes thee ,  and Requires to live in Egypt; which not granted ,  He lessens his requests ,  and to thee sues To let him breathe between the heavens and earth A private man in Athens . 	If that is not granted ,  he reduces his requests and asks only that he be allowed to live as a private man in Athens . 
this for him . 	that’s all he asks for himself . 
next ,  Cleopatra does confess thy greatness ,  Submits her to thy might ,  and of thee craves The circle of the Ptolemies for her heirs ,  Now hazarded to thy grace . 	cleopatra recognizes your greatness and accepts your authority . 
for Antony ,  I have no ears to his request . 	as for Antony ,  I’m not interested in his requests . 
the Queen Of audience nor desire shall fail ,  so she From Egypt drive her all - disgracèd friend Or take his life there . 	I’ll give the Queen a hearing and grant her requests if she either throws her dishonored friend out of Egypt or kills him . 
this if she perform ,  She shall not sue unheard . 	then I’ll listen to her . 
so to them both . 	give my answer to them both . 
fortune pursue thee ! 	may good luck follow you ! 
bring him through the bands . 	take him safely through the lines . 
caesar ,  I go . 	I go ,  Caesar . 
observe how Antony becomes his flaw ,  And what thou think’st his very action speaks In every power that moves . 	observe how Antony takes his defeat and how his attitude influences his actions . 
caesar ,  I shall . 	I will ,  Caesar . 
what shall we do ,  Enobarbus ? 	what are we going to do ,  Enobarbus ? 
think and die . 	think about our situation ,  then die . 
Is Antony or we in fault for this ? 	who is to blame for this: Antony or I ? 
antony only ,  that would make his will Lord of his reason . 	only Antony was at fault . 
why should he follow ? 	why should he have followed you ? 
the itch of his affection should not then Have nicked his captainship at such a point When half to half the world opposed ,  he being The merèd question . 	with half the world opposing the other half ,  it wasn’t the time for Antony ,  the pivotal player ,  to let love distract him . 
twas a shame no less Than was his loss ,  to course your flying flags And leave his navy gazing . 	to race after your departing ships ,  leaving his navy to watch ,  was a shame as great as the resulting loss . 
prithee ,  peace . 	please ,  let’s not talk about it . 
Is that his answer ? 	Is that his answer ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
the Queen shall then have courtesy ,  so she Will yield us up ? 	the Queen will be treated fairly if she gives me up ? 
he says so . 	that’s what he says . 
let her know ’t . —   And he will fill thy wishes to the brim With principalities . 	tell her . 
that head ,  my lord ? 	your head ,  my lord ? 
a messenger from Caesar . 	a messenger has arrived from Caesar . 
what ,  no more ceremony ? 	with no more ceremony than that ? 
see ,  my women ,  Against the blown rose may they stop their nose ,  That kneeled unto the buds . —Admit him ,  sir . 	see ,  ladies ,  how they scorn me now . 
at your noble pleasure . 	I’ll be at your service . 
he stays upon your will . 	he’s waiting outside . 
what are you ? 	what’s your message ? 
fulvia thy wife is dead . 	your wife ,  Fulvia ,  is dead . 
where died she ? 	where did she die ? 
In Sicyon . 	In Sicyon . 
her length of sickness ,  with what else more serious Importeth thee to know ,  this bears . 	In this letter you’ll find details of her illness and other ,  more serious matters that concern you . 
forbear me . 	leave me . 
caesar’s will ? 	what does Caesar want ? 
hear it apart . 	It is for your ears only . 
none but friends . 	there are only friends here . 
say boldly . 	speak confidently . 
so haply are they friends to Antony . 	so they are possibly Antony’s friends . 
he needs as many ,  sir ,  as Caesar has ,  Or needs not us . 	sir ,  he should have as many as Caesar has . 
If Caesar please ,  our master Will leap to be his friend . 	If Caesar chose ,  Antony would jump at the chance to be his friend . 
for us ,  you know Whose he is we are ,  and that is Caesar’s . 	as for us ,  you know we are Antony’s ,  and he is Caesar’s . 
so . — Thus then ,  thou most renowned: Caesar entreats Not to consider in what case thou stand’st ,  Further than he is Caesar . 	just remember that he is Caesar . 
he knows that you embrace not Antony As you did love ,  but as you feared him . 	he knows that you didn’t embrace Antony because you loved him ,  but because you feared him . 
oh ! 	oh ! 
he is a god and knows What is most right . 	he is like a god and knows the truth . 
mine honor was not yielded ,  But conquered merely . 	my honor wasn’t given; it was only dominated . 
shall I say to Caesar What you require of him ? 	shall I tell Caesar what you request from him ? 
for he partly begs To be desired to give . 	he almost begs for the opportunity to help you . 
It much would please him That of his fortunes you should make a staff To lean upon . 	It would please him very much if you would rely on his wealth and success to support you . 
but it would warm his spirits To hear from me you had left Antony And put yourself under his shroud ,  The universal landlord . 	but he would feel even better if I could tell him that you had left Antony and put yourself under his protection . 
what’s your name ? 	what’s your name ? 
my name is Thidias . 	my name is Thidias . 
most kind messenger ,  Say to great Caesar this in deputation: I kiss his conqu’ring hand . 	most kind messenger ,  tell great Caesar that through his deputy I kiss his conquering hand . 
tell him I am prompt To lay my crown at ’s feet ,  and there to kneel . 	tell him I am ready to lay my crown at his feet and kneel before him . 
favors ? 	promising favors ? 
by Jove that thunders ! 	by Jove that thunders ! 
what art thou ,  fellow ? 	who are you ,  slave ? 
you will be whipped . 	you will be whipped . 
take hence this jack and whip him . 	take away this lout and whip him . 
moon and stars ! 	by the moon and stars ! 
whip him . 	whip him ! 
were ’t twenty of the greatest tributaries That do acknowledge Caesar ,  should I find them So saucy with the hand of she here—what’s her name Since she was Cleopatra ? 	If I saw twenty of the greatest powers that pay tribute to Caesar taking such liberties with her hand—what’s her name now ? 
whip him ,  fellows ,  Till like a boy ,  you see him cringe his face And whine aloud for mercy . 	whip him ,  fellows ,  until he screws up his face like a baby and cries aloud for mercy ! 
take him hence . 	take him away . 
this jack of Caesar’s shall Bear us an errand to him . 	caesar’s knave will bring him a message for us . 
good my lord— You have been a boggler ever . 	my good lord— You’ve always been a liar . 
but when we in our viciousness grow hard— Oh ,  misery on ’t ! —the wise gods seel our eyes ,  In our own filth drop our clear judgments ,  make us Adore our errors ,  laugh at ’s while we strut To our confusion . 	but when our vices become habits—Oh ,  the sadness of it ! —the wise gods blind us ,  shade our better judgment ,  make us love our mistakes ,  and laugh as we strut to our ruin . 
oh ,  is ’t come to this ? 	oh ,  has it come to this ? 
I found you as a morsel cold upon Dead Caesar’s trencher . 	you were a cold crumb on dead Julius Caesar’s plate when I met you . 
nay ,  you were a fragment Of Gneius Pompey’s ,  besides what hotter hours ,  Unregistered in vulgar fame ,  you have Luxuriously picked out . 	no ,  you were one of Gneius Pompey’s leftovers—not to mention your other ,  more depraved affairs ,  which have somehow managed to avoid becoming the subject of vulgar gossip . 
for I am sure ,  Though you can guess what temperance should be ,  You know not what it is . 	for I’m sure that although you may know what temperance is ,  you’ve never experienced it firsthand . 
wherefore is this ? 	why are you doing this ? 
soundly ,  my lord . 	soundly ,  my lord . 
cried he ? 	did he cry ? 
and begged he pardon ? 	did he beg my pardon ? 
he did ask favor . 	he did ask for mercy . 
have you done yet ? 	are you done yet ? 
alack ,  our terrene moon is now eclipsed ,  And it portends alone the fall of Antony . 	you ,  my earthly moon ,  are now eclipsed ,  and that alone foretells my ruin . 
to flatter Caesar ,  would you mingle eyes With one that ties his points ? 	In order to flatter Caesar ,  would you flirt with the servant who laces up his pants ? 
not know me yet ? 	don’t you know me still ? 
coldhearted toward me ? 	has your heart cooled toward me ? 
ah ,  dear ,  if I be so ,  From my cold heart let heaven engender hail ,  And poison it in the source ,  and the first stone Drop in my neck . 	ah ,  dear ,  if that is true ,  let heaven make poisonous hail grow from my heart ,  and let the first hailstone drop down my throat . 
as it determines ,  so Dissolve my life ! 	as it dissolves ,  so shall my life . 
the next Caesarion smite ,  Till by degrees the memory of my womb ,  Together with my brave Egyptians all ,  By the discandying of this pelleted storm Lie graveless till the flies and gnats of Nile Have buried them for prey ! 	the next hailstone should hit Caesarion ,  until one by one all my children ,  and every one of my brave Egyptians ,  are killed by the dissolving of this pellet storm and lie unburied ,  covered by gnats and flies . 
I am satisfied . 	I am satisfied . 
caesar sits down in Alexandria ,  where I will oppose his fate . 	I will fight him there . 
our force by land Hath nobly held . 	our land forces have bravely stood firm . 
our severed navy too Have knit again ,  and fleet ,  threat’ning most sealike . 	our tattered navy has reassembled and set sail ,  as formidable as the sea itself . 
where hast thou been ,  my heart ? 	where have you been ,  my bravery ? 
dost thou hear ,  lady ? 	do you hear what I say ,  lady ? 
If from the field I shall return once more To kiss these lips ,  I will appear in blood . 	If I come back from the battlefield again to kiss those lips ,  I’ll be covered in blood . 
I and my sword will earn our chronicle . 	my sword and I will earn our place in history . 
there’s hope in ’t yet . 	we still have hope . 
that’s my brave lord ! 	that’s my brave lord ! 
I will be treble - sinewed ,   - hearted ,   - breathed ,  And fight maliciously . 	I’ll fight brutally . 
for when mine hours Were nice and lucky ,  men did ransom lives Of me for jests; but now I’ll set my teeth And send to darkness all that stop me . 	but now I’ll grit my teeth and kill anyone who tries to stop me . 
come ,  Let’s have one other gaudy night . 	come ,  let’s have one more extravagant night . 
call to me All my sad captains . 	Invite all my sad captains . 
let’s mock the midnight bell . 	let’s drink through midnight . 
It is my birthday . 	It’s my birthday . 
I had thought t’ have held it poor; but since my lord Is Antony again ,  I will be Cleopatra . 	I had planned to celebrate it quietly ,  but since my lord is once more himself ,  I will be Cleopatra again . 
we will yet do well . 	we’ll win yet . 
do so . 	do so . 
we’ll speak to them ,  and tonight I’ll force The wine peep through their scars . —Come on ,  my Queen ,  There’s sap in ’t yet . 	I’ll speak to them ,  and then tonight I’ll get them all so drunk that the wine seeps out of their old war wounds . 
now he’ll outstare the lightning . 	now he’ll work himself up to a fury . 
when valor preys on reason ,  It eats the sword it fights with . 	when courage consumes reason ,  it destroys its only weapon . 
I will seek Some way to leave him . 	I’ll look for some way to leave his service . 
he calls me  “ boy ”  and chides as he had power To beat me out of Egypt . 	he calls me  “ boy ”  and scolds me as if he had the power to whip me out of Egypt . 
let the old ruffian know I have many other ways to die ,  meantime Laugh at his challenge . 	let the old ruffian discover that I have many other ways to die ,  and in the meantime ,  we’ll laugh at his challenge . 
give him no breath ,  but now Make boot of his distraction . 	don’t give him time to catch his breath . 
never anger Made good guard for itself . 	anger does not protect the angry well . 
let our best heads Know that tomorrow the last of many battles We mean to fight . 	tell our top commanders that I want tomorrow’s battle to be the last we fight . 
within our files there are ,  Of those that served Mark Antony but late ,  Enough to fetch him in . 	our army has recently acquired many of Mark Antony’s former soldiers—enough to capture him . 
see it done And feast the army . 	see that it is done ,  and prepare a feast for the soldiers . 
we have store to do ’t ,  And they have earned the waste . 	we have enough supplies for it ,  and they’ve earned it . 
poor Antony ! 	poor Antony ! 
what’s your pleasure ,  sir ? 	what would you like ,  sir ? 
I must with haste from hence . 	I have to leave right away . 
why ,  then ,  we kill all our women . 	that will kill our lovers . 
we see how mortal an unkindness is to them . 	we know how much they suffer if we are unkind to them . 
If they suffer our departure ,  death’s the word . 	If we leave ,  it will feel like nothing less than death to them . 
I must be gone . 	I must be gone . 
under a compelling occasion ,  let women die . 	If it’s that important ,  then let the women die . 
It were pity to cast them away for nothing ,  though between them and a great cause they should be esteemed nothing . 	It would be a pity to throw them away for nothing ,  but if it’s a matter of choosing between them and a great cause ,  then they’re worthless . 
cleopatra ,  catching but the least noise of this ,  dies instantly . 	If Cleopatra hears even a breath of this ,  she’ll die immediately . 
I have seen her die twenty times upon far poorer moment . 	I’ve seen her claim to be dying twenty times before ,  and for far less reason . 
I do think there is mettle in death ,  which commits some loving act upon her ,  she hath such a celerity in dying . 	I think there must be something invigorating about death ,  since she dies with such enthusiasm . 
she is cunning past man’s thought . 	she’s more cunning than anyone can imagine . 
we cannot call her winds and waters sighs and tears . 	her sighs and tears are like great winds and floods . 
he will not fight with me ,  Domitius ? 	he won’t fight with me ,  Domitius ? 
no . 	no . 
why should he not ? 	why won’t he ? 
he thinks ,  being twenty times of better fortune ,  He is twenty men to one . 	he thinks that since his fortune is twenty times better than yours ,  it would be like pitting twenty men against one . 
tomorrow ,  soldier ,  By sea and land I’ll fight . 	tomorrow ,  soldier ,  I’ll fight by sea and land . 
or I will live Or bathe my dying honor in the blood Shall make it live again . 	by the end I will either live ,  or else I’ll restore my honor by shedding my blood . 
woo’t thou fight well ? 	will you fight well ? 
I’ll strike and cry ,   “ Take all .  ”                                                            Well said . 	when I strike ,  I’ll cry ,   “ All or nothing !  ”  Well put . 
come on ! 	come on . 
call forth my household servants . 	call out my household servants . 
let’s tonight Be bounteous at our meal . 	tonight let’s have plenty to eat . 
you have served me well ,  And kings have been your fellows . 	you have all served me well ,  and kings are your peers . 
the gods forbid ! 	the gods forbid ! 
well ,  my good fellows ,  wait on me tonight . 	well ,  my good fellows ,  wait on me tonight . 
scant not my cups ,  and make as much of me As when mine empire was your fellow too ,  And suffered my command . 	keep my cups full and treat me as you did when my empire was one of your fellow servants ,  obeying my commands . 
look ,  they weep ,  And I ,  an ass ,  am onion - eyed . 	look—they’re crying . 
ho ,  ho ,  ho ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
now the witch take me if I meant it thus ! 	may the evil one take me if I meant it like that ! 
grace grow where those drops fall ! 	those tears will bring blessings to you . 
my hearty friends ,  You take me in too dolorous a sense ,  For I spake to you for your comfort ,  did desire you To burn this night with torches . 	you interpret my words in a melancholy sense ,  my hearty friends . 
know ,  my hearts ,  I hope well of tomorrow ,  and will lead you Where rather I’ll expect victorious life Than death and honor . 	you should know ,  my friends ,  that I have good hopes for tomorrow ,  and that I will lead you as if I expect victory rather than an honorable death . 
brother ,  good night . 	good night ,  brother . 
tomorrow is the day . 	tomorrow is the day . 
heard you of nothing strange about the streets ? 	have you heard about anything unusual happening in the city ? 
nothing . 	no . 
what news ? 	what was it ? 
belike ’tis but a rumor . 	It was probably just a rumor . 
good night to you . 	good night . 
well ,  sir ,  good night . 	well sir ,  good night . 
soldiers ,  have careful watch . 	soldiers ,  watch carefully . 
and you . 	you too . 
here we . 	this is our station . 
and if tomorrow Our navy thrive ,  I have an absolute hope Our landmen will stand up . 	and if our navy wins tomorrow ,  no doubt our army will do their part . 
tis a brave army ,  and full of purpose . 	It’s an outstanding army and highly motivated . 
peace ! 	quiet ! 
what noise ? 	what’s that sound ? 
hark ! 	listen ! 
music i’ th’ air . 	there’s music coming out of thin air . 
under the earth . 	from under the earth . 
It signs well ,  does it not ? 	It’s a lucky sign ,  isn’t it ? 
no . 	no . 
peace ,  I say ! 	quiet ,  I say . 
what should this mean ? 	what does this mean ? 
how now ,  masters ? 	hello there ,  good sirs . 
ay . 	yes . 
Is ’t not strange ? 	Isn’t it strange ? 
do you hear ,  masters ? 	do you hear that ,  men ? 
do you hear ? 	do you ? 
follow the noise so far as we have quarter; Let’s see how it will give off . 	let’s follow the music as far as we can without leaving our station and see if it stops . 
content . 	good idea . 
tis strange . 	It’s very strange . 
sleep a little . 	get a little sleep . 
come ,  good fellow ,  put thine iron on . 	come on ,  good fellow ,  help me into that armor you’re carrying . 
If fortune be not ours today ,  it is Because we brave her . 	If luck deserts us today ,  it’s because we defy it . 
come . 	come on . 
nay ,  I’ll help too . 	no ,  I’ll help too . 
what’s this for ? 	what’s this part for ? 
ah ,  let be ,  let be ! 	ah ,  leave it alone . 
thou art The armorer of my heart . 	you armor my heart . 
false ,  false . 	no ! 
this ,  this . 	no ! 
sooth ,  la ,  I’ll help . 	really ,  I’ll help . 
thus it must be . 	It must go like this . 
well ,  well ,  We shall thrive now . —Seest thou ,  my good fellow ? 	we’ve got it now . —Do you see this ,  my good fellow ? 
go put on thy defenses . 	go and put on your own armor . 
briefly ,  sir . 	In a minute ,  sir . 
Is not this buckled well ? 	didn’t I buckle this well ? 
rarely ,  rarely . 	excellently ,  excellently . 
dispatch . —O love ,  That thou couldst see my wars today ,  and knew’st The royal occupation ! 	hurry . —Oh ,  love ,  if you could only watch the battle today and see how expert I am at my craft . 
good morrow to thee . 	good morning to you . 
welcome . 	welcome . 
thou look’st like him that knows a warlike charge . 	you look like a person who knows the business of war . 
to business that we love we rise betimes And go to ’t with delight . 	when we love our job we get up early and go to it joyfully . 
a thousand ,  sir ,  Early though ’t be ,  have on their riveted trim And at the port expect you . 	even though it’s early ,  there are already a thousand armored soldiers waiting for you at the harbor . 
the morn is fair . 	the weather is fair . 
good morrow ,  General . 	good morning ,  General . 
good morrow ,  General . 	good morning ,  General . 
tis well blown ,  lads . 	that was a fine fanfare ,  boys . 
this morning ,  like the spirit of a youth That means to be of note ,  begins betimes . 	like a young man who wants to amount to something ,  this morning begins early . 
fare thee well ,  dame . 	farewell ,  lady . 
whate’er becomes of me ,  This is a soldier’s kiss . 	whatever happens to me ,  this is a soldier’s kiss . 
I’ll leave thee Now like a man of steel . 	I’ll leave you without revealing any emotion ,  like a man of steel . 
lead me . 	lead the way . 
he goes forth gallantly . 	he goes forth to war bravely . 
the gods make this a happy day to Antony ! 	may the gods bless Antony today ! 
would thou and those thy scars had once prevailed To make me fight at land ! 	I wish you and your scarred self had convinced me to wage our last battle on land . 
hadst thou done so ,  The kings that have revolted ,  and the soldier That has this morning left thee ,  would have still Followed thy heels . 	If you had ,  the kings that have revolted and the soldier that deserted this morning would still be behind you . 
who’s gone this morning ? 	who deserted this morning ? 
who ? 	you don’t know ? 
one ever near thee . 	someone who was always near you . 
sir ,  He is with Caesar . 	sir ,  he’s with Caesar . 
sir ,  his chests and treasure He has not with him . 	sir ,  he left his belongings and treasure . 
Is he gone ? 	he’s gone ? 
most certain . 	It’s certain . 
go ,  Eros ,  send his treasure after . 	eros ,  send his treasure to him . 
do it . 	do it now . 
detain no jot ,  I charge thee . 	don’t keep anything back ,  I insist . 
write to him— I will subscribe—gentle adieus and greetings . 	write to him from me—I’ll sign it—sending greetings and gentle good - byes . 
say that I wish he never find more cause To change a master . 	say that I hope he never has cause to look for a new master . 
oh ,  my fortunes have Corrupted honest men ! 	oh ,  my bad luck has forced honest men to become traitors . 
dispatch . —Enobarbus ! 	hurry . 
fulvia is dead . 	fulvia is dead . 
sir ? 	pardon me ? 
fulvia is dead . 	fulvia is dead . 
fulvia ? 	fulvia ? 
dead . 	dead . 
why ,  sir ,  give the gods a thankful sacrifice . 	then you should offer the gods a sacrifice to show your thanks . 
If there were no more women but Fulvia ,  then had you indeed a cut ,  and the case to be lamented . 	If Fulvia were the last woman on earth ,  there would be a reason to grieve . 
this grief is crowned with consolation . 	but in this way ,  grief and comfort appear together . 
your old smock brings forth a new petticoat ,  and indeed the tears live in an onion that should water this sorrow . 	the only kind of tears you should shed in this case are the kind you might get from holding an onion to your nose . 
the business she hath broached in the state Cannot endure my absence . 	I must go and continue the business Fulvia started . 
and the business you have broached here cannot be without you ,  especially that of Cleopatra’s ,  which wholly depends on your abode . 	the business you began here needs you as well—especially the business with Cleopatra ,  which only you can attend to . 
no more light answers . 	enough of this frivolous talk . 
let our officers Have notice what we purpose . 	give our officers notice of our intentions . 
I shall break The cause of our expedience to the Queen And get her leave to part . 	I’ll tell the Queen the reason for our quick departure and get her permission to leave . 
for not alone The death of Fulvia ,  with more urgent touches ,  Do strongly speak to us ,  but the letters too Of many our contriving friends in Rome Petition us at home . 	fulvia’s death and the pressing concerns related to it are not the only reasons I am eager to go; friends in Rome have also sent many letters advising my return . 
much is breeding  Which ,  like the courser’s hair ,  hath yet but life ,  And not a serpent’s poison . 	the empire may be in danger if he’s not restrained before he reaches his full potential . 
say our pleasure ,  To such whose place is under us ,  requires Our quick remove from hence . 	there are many troubles brewing now that have yet to become full - fledged threats . 
go forth ,  Agrippa ,  and begin the fight . 	agrippa ,  go start the battle . 
our will is Antony be took alive . 	we want Antony taken alive . 
make it so known . 	make sure everyone knows that . 
caesar ,  I shall . 	I will ,  Caesar . 
the time of universal peace is near . 	an era of universal peace is about to start . 
go charge Agrippa Plant those that have revolted in the vant ,  That Antony may seem to spend his fury Upon himself . 	that way Antony will feel like he’s fighting his own men . 
for this pains Caesar hath hanged him . 	caesar hanged him for this service . 
canidius and the rest That fell away have entertainment but No honorable trust . 	canidius and the others that left Antony are given hospitality here but no positions of trust . 
I have done ill ,  Of which I do accuse myself so sorely That I will joy no more . 	I’ve done a bad thing ,  for which I will blame myself so much that I’ll never be happy again . 
enobarbus ,  Antony Hath after thee sent all thy treasure ,  with His bounty overplus . 	enobarbus ,  Antony has sent you all your treasure ,  with generous gifts besides . 
the messenger Came on my guard ,  and at thy tent is now Unloading of his mules . 	the messenger arrived on my watch and is unloading his mules at your tent . 
I give it you . 	It’s yours . 
mock not ,  Enobarbus . 	don’t joke about this ,  Enobarbus . 
I tell you true . 	I’m telling you the truth . 
best you safed the bringer Out of the host . 	you’d better bring the messenger safely through the lines so he can return . 
I must attend mine office ,  Or would have done ’t myself . 	I’d do it myself ,  but I can’t leave my post . 
your Emperor Continues still a Jove . 	your Emperor is still a king among gods . 
I am alone the villain of the earth ,  And feel I am so most . 	I am the worst person alive ,  and I know it the best . 
o Antony ,  Thou mine of bounty ,  how wouldst thou have paid My better service ,  when my turpitude Thou dost so crown with gold ! 	oh ,  Antony ,  you extravagantly generous man ,  how would you have rewarded me for serving you faithfully when you reward my badness with all of this gold ! 
this blows my heart . 	my heart feels like it’s about to explode . 
If swift thought break it not ,  a swifter mean Shall outstrike thought ,  but thought will do ’t ,  I feel . 	If grief doesn’t kill me ,  I’ll find a quicker way to kill myself—even though I think grief will do the job just as well . 
I fight against thee ? 	I ,  fight against you ,  Antony ? 
no ,  I will go seek Some ditch wherein to die . 	no ,  I’ll go find some ditch to die in . 
the foul’st best fits My latter part of life . 	the foulest fate would be most appropriate for me now in this latest phase of my life . 
retire ! 	retreat ! 
we have engaged ourselves too far . 	we’ve advanced too far . 
caesar himself has work ,  and our oppression Exceeds what we expected . 	caesar himself is in trouble and there are more adversaries than we expected . 
o my brave Emperor ,  this is fought indeed ! 	oh ,  my brave Emperor ,  this is what I call a fight ! 
had we done so at first ,  we had droven them home With clouts about their heads . 	If we’d fought like this before ,  we’d have driven them home with bandaged heads . 
thou bleed’st apace . 	you’re bleeding a lot . 
I had a wound here that was like a  “ T ,  ”  But now ’tis made an  “ H .  ”                                                         They do retire . 	I had a scar here that looked like a  “ T ” ; now it’s an  “ H .  ”  They’re retreating . 
we’ll beat ’em into bench - holes . 	we’ll chase ’em into their latrines . 
I have yet Room for six scotches more . 	I still have room for six more wounds . 
they are beaten ,  sir ,  and our advantage serves For a fair victory . 	they’re retreating ,  sir ,  and our superiority indicates a clear victory . 
let us score their backs And snatch ’em up ,  as we take hares ,  behind ! 	let’s slash their backs and grab ’em like we do rabbits ,  from behind . 
tis sport to maul a runner . 	It’s fair game to mark a coward . 
I will reward thee Once for thy sprightly comfort and tenfold For thy good valor . 	I’ll reward you once for your cheerfulness and ten times for your courage . 
come thee on . 	come on . 
I’ll halt after . 	I’ll limp after you . 
we have beat him to his camp . 	we’ve driven him all the way back to his camp . 
run one before And let the Queen know of our gests . 	one of you run to the Queen with the news . 
tomorrow ,  Before the sun shall see ’s ,  we’ll spill the blood That has today escaped . 	before sunrise tomorrow ,  we’ll kill anyone who escaped today . 
lord of lords ! 	you are all    Lord of lords ! 
o infinite virtue ,  com’st thou smiling from The world’s great snare uncaught ? 	have you returned smiling from the great battle for the world ? 
mine nightingale ,  We have beat them to their beds . 	my songbird ,  we have beaten them to their beds . 
what ,  girl ,  though gray Do something mingle with our younger brown ,  yet ha’ we A brain that nourishes our nerves and can Get goal for goal of youth . 	what do you think ,  girl ! 
behold this man . 	look at this man . 
he hath fought today As if a god ,  in hate of mankind ,  had Destroyed in such a shape . 	today he fought as though he were a god who hated mankind . 
he has deserved it ,  were it carbuncled Like holy Phoebus’ car . 	he deserves it ,  even if it were covered with jewels like holy
If we be not relieved within this hour ,  We must return to th’ court of guard . 	If we aren’t relieved in an hour ,  we have to return to our barracks . 
o bear me witness ,  night— What man is this ? 	oh ,  listen to me ,  night— Who is this ? 
stand close and list him . 	stay hidden and listen . 
be witness to me ,  O thou blessèd moon ,  When men revolted shall upon record Bear hateful memory ,  poor Enobarbus did Before thy face repent . 	be my witness ,  oh you blessed moon . 
enobarbus ? 	that’s Enobarbus ? 
peace ! 	quiet ! 
hark further . 	keep listening . 
throw my heart Against the flint and hardness of my fault ,  Which ,  being dried with grief ,  will break to powder And finish all foul thoughts . 	my heart ,  which dried out with grief ,  will surely break apart into a powder ,  and that will be the end of my disgusting mind . 
o Antony ! 	oh ,  Antony ! 
let’s speak to him . 	let’s speak to him . 
let’s hear him ,  for the things he speaks may concern Caesar . 	let’s listen to him . 
let’s do so . 	good idea . 
but he sleeps . 	but he’s sleeping . 
swoons rather ,  for so bad a prayer as his Was never yet for sleep . 	no one ever gave a prayer like that before going to sleep . 
go we to him . 	let’s go to him . 
awake ,  sir ,  awake . 	wake up ,  sir ,  wake up . 
speak to us . 	speak to us . 
hear you ,  sir ? 	do you hear us ,  sir ? 
the hand of death hath raught him . 	the hand of death has taken him . 
let us bear him  To th’ court of guard . 	let’s carry him to the barracks . 
he is of note . 	he’s an important person . 
our hour  Is fully out . 	our hour is up . 
come on ,  then . 	come on ,  then . 
he may recover yet . 	he may recover yet . 
I shall do ’t . 	I will . 
their preparation is today by sea . 	they’ve switched their operation to the sea today . 
we please them not by land . 	we didn’t please them on land . 
for both ,  my lord . 	we’re ready for both ,  my lord . 
I would they’d fight i’ th’ fire or i’ th’ air ,  We’d fight there too . 	I wish they’d fight in fire or in the air . 
but this it is: our foot Upon the hills adjoining to the city Shall stay with us . 	but here’s the plan: our army will stay with us on the hills by the city . 
to the vales ,  And hold our best advantage . 	let’s take up the best positions we can in the valleys . 
yet they are not joined . 	they still haven’t joined the battle . 
where yond pine does stand I shall discover all . 	I’ll be able to see better from that pine tree over there . 
I’ll bring thee word Straight how ’tis like to go . 	I’ll let you know right away how it’s going . 
swallows have built In Cleopatra’s sails their nests . 	swallows have built nests in Cleopatra’s sails . 
all is lost ! 	all is lost ! 
this foul Egyptian hath betrayèd me . 	this treacherous Egyptian has betrayed me . 
triple - turned whore ! 	three - time traitor and whore ! 
bid them all fly ,  For when I am revenged upon my charm ,  I have done all . 	tell the army to flee . 
bid them all fly . 	order them to escape . 
begone ! 	go ! 
o sun ,  thy uprise shall I see no more . 	oh ,  sun ,  I will never see another one of your sunrises . 
fortune and Antony part here . 	luck and Antony separate here and now . 
even here Do we shake hands . 	here we’ll shake hands good - bye . 
all come to this ? 	Is it all come to this ? 
betrayed I am . 	I’ve been stripped of everything ,  betrayed . 
oh ,  this false soul of Egypt ! 	oh ,  that devious Egyptian spirit ! 
ah ,  thou spell ! 	ah ,  you sorceress ! 
avaunt ! 	be gone ! 
why is my lord enraged against his love ? 	why is my lord enraged against his love ? 
vanish ,  or I shall give thee thy deserving ,  And blemish Caesar’s triumph . 	get out of my sight ,  or I’ll give you what you deserve and spoil Caesar’s victory . 
let him take thee And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians ! 	let him hoist you up in front of the shouting crowds ! 
follow his chariot ,  like the greatest spot Of all thy sex . 	follow his chariot ,  like the greatest disgrace to your whole gender . 
most monsterlike be shown For poor’st diminutives ,  for dolts ,  and let Patient Octavia plow thy visage up With her preparèd nails ! 	then let Octavia dig up your face with her nails . 
she dies for ’t . —Eros ,  ho ! 	she’ll die for it . —Eros ,  ho ! 
help me ,  my women ! 	help me ,  ladies ! 
to th’ monument ! 	go to your tomb ! 
there lock yourself and send him word you are dead . 	lock yourself in and send him word that you’re dead . 
the soul and body rive not more in parting Than greatness going off . 	when a great person departs ,  it causes more pain than when the soul leaves the body . 
say that the last I spoke was  “ Antony ,  ”  And word it ,  prithee ,  piteously . 	say the last word I spoke was  “ Antony ,  ”  and please word it pathetically . 
hence ,  Mardian ,  And bring me how he takes my death . 	go ,  Mardian ,  and let me know how he reacts to my death . 
eros ,  thou yet behold’st me ? 	eros ,  can you still see me ? 
ay ,  noble lord . 	yes ,  noble lord . 
thou hast seen these signs . 	you’ve seen these illusions . 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
that which is now a horse ,  even with a thought The rack dislimns and makes it indistinct As water is in water . 	what looks like a horse is quick as thought disfigured by the wind ,  made as difficult to distinguish as water poured into water . 
It does ,  my lord . 	that’s true ,  my lord . 
my good knave Eros ,  now thy captain is Even such a body . 	eros ,  my young friend ,  your captain is now just like that cloud . 
here I am Antony ,  Yet cannot hold this visible shape ,  my knave . 	here and now I seem like Antony ,  but I can’t keep myself in this form ,  my boy . 
nay ,  weep not ,  gentle Eros . 	no ,  don’t cry ,  kind Eros . 
oh ,  thy vile lady ! 	oh ,  your contemptible lady ! 
she has robbed me of my sword . 	she has disarmed me . 
hence ,  saucy eunuch ! 	get out ,  insolent eunuch ! 
peace ! 	silence ! 
she hath betrayed me and shall die the death . 	she has betrayed me and shall die . 
death of one person can be paid but once ,  And that she has discharged . 	a person can only pay with their life once ,  and she has paid in full . 
what thou wouldst do Is done unto thy hand . 	what you wanted is yours . 
the last she spake Was  “ Antony ,  most noble Antony !  ”  Then in the midst a tearing groan did break The name of Antony . 	most noble Antony !  ”  Then ,  as she was speaking your name ,  a strangled groan split her words . 
It was divided Between her heart and lips . 	antony ”  was divided between her heart and lips . 
she rendered life ,  Thy name so buried in her . 	she gave up her life with your name still within her . 
dead ,  then ? 	Is she dead ,  then ? 
dead . 	dead . 
unarm ,  Eros . 	remove your armor ,  Eros . 
go . 	off ! 
off ,  pluck off ! 	take off my armor . 
o ,  cleave ,  my sides ! 	oh ,  chest ,  obey me ! 
heart ,  once be stronger than thy continent . 	heart ,  for once be stronger than all the rest of the body combined . 
crack thy frail case ! —Apace ,  Eros ,  apace . 	faster ,  Eros ,  faster . 
no more a soldier . 	I won’t be a soldier anymore . 
bruisèd pieces ,  go . 	battered armor ,  be off . 
you have been nobly borne . 	you were worn with honor . 
I will o’ertake thee ,  Cleopatra ,  and Weep for my pardon . 	I will catch up with you ,  Cleopatra ,  and weep for your forgiveness . 
since the torch is out ,  Lie down and stray no farther . 	since the light of my life has gone out ,  I’ll stop here . 
now all labor Mars what it does . 	now any effort ruins what it attempts . 
yea ,  very force entangles Itself with strength . 	yes ,  even power gets in its own way . 
seal then ,  and all is done . — Eros ! —I come ,  my Queen . —Eros ! —Stay for me . 	end it ,  then ,  and everything is over . —Eros ! —I’m coming ,  my Queen ! —Eros ! —Wait for me . 
where souls do couch on flowers ,  we’ll hand in hand ,  And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze . 	In the place where souls recline on beds of flowers we’ll walk hand in hand and amaze the other ghosts with our spirited demeanor . 
dido and her Aeneas shall want troops ,  And all the haunt be ours . —Come ,  Eros ,  Eros ! 	eros ! 
what would my lord ? 	what can I do for my lord ? 
since Cleopatra died I have lived in such dishonor that the gods Detest my baseness . 	since Cleopatra died ,  I have lived in such dishonor that the gods despise my disgrace . 
do ’t . 	do it . 
the time is come . 	this is that time . 
thou strik’st not me ,  ’tis Caesar thou defeat’st . 	you won’t be striking me down ,  but defeating Caesar . 
put color in thy cheek . 	call up your courage . 
the gods withhold me ! 	the gods forbid ! 
shall I do that which all the Parthian darts ,  Though enemy ,  lost aim and could not ? 	can I do what all the Parthian arrows ,  though shot by enemies ,  could not ? 
eros ,  Wouldst thou be windowed in great Rome and see Thy master thus with pleached arms ,  bending down His corrigible neck ,  his face subdued To penetrative shame ,  whilst the wheeled seat Of fortunate Caesar ,  drawn before him ,  branded His baseness that ensued ? 	eros ,  would you like to look through a window in Rome and watch your master marching in Caesar’s victory parade ,  his arms crossed and tied ,  his head bowed in submission ,  his face red from shame ,  while the chariot of triumphant Caesar precedes him ,  putting the final stamp to his humiliation ? 
I would not see ’t . 	I would not . 
draw that thy honest sword ,  which thou hast worn Most useful for thy country . 	draw your trustworthy sword ,  which you have used in such service to your country . 
o sir ,  pardon me ! 	oh ,  sir ,  pardon me ! 
when I did make thee free ,  swor’st thou not then To do this when I bade thee ? 	when I freed you from slavery ,  didn’t you swear to do this when I asked you ? 
do it at once ,  Or thy precedent services are all But accidents unpurposed . 	do it immediately ,  or all your previous services to me were accidental ,  without purpose . 
draw and come . 	take out your sword and come on . 
turn from me then that noble countenance Wherein the worship of the whole world lies . 	then turn your noble face away from me ,  that face that the whole world adores . 
lo thee ! 	look ! 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
I did not see him since . 	I haven’t seen him recently . 
what should I do I do not ? 	what should I do that I’m not doing ? 
In each thing give him way . 	always give him his way . 
cross him in nothing . 	never contradict him . 
tempt him not so too far . 	don’t push him too far . 
I wish ,  forbear . 	I wish you’d be patient . 
In time we hate that which we often fear . 	we come to hate that which controls us . 
but here comes Antony . 	but here comes Antony . 
I am sick and sullen . 	I am sick and sullen . 
I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose— Help me away ,  dear Charmian ! 	I’m sorry to have to say this— Help me away from here ,  dear Charmian ! 
I shall fall . 	I shall faint . 
my sword is drawn . 	I have drawn my sword . 
my dear master ,  My captain ,  and my emperor ,  let me say ,  Before I strike this bloody stroke ,  farewell . 	my dear master ,  my captain ,  my sovereign ,  let me say before I strike this fatal blow: farewell . 
tis said ,  man ,  and farewell . 	you’ve said it ,  friend ,  and farewell to you . 
farewell ,  great chief . 	good - bye ,  great commander . 
shall I strike now ? 	should I do it now ? 
now ,  Eros . 	now ,  Eros . 
why ,  there then ! 	well ,  then ,  there ! 
thus I do escape the sorrow Of Antony’s death . 	with this I avoid the grief of Antony’s death . 
my Queen and Eros Have by their brave instruction got upon me A nobleness in record . 	my Queen and Eros have by their brave examples beaten me to the history books . 
to do thus I learned of thee . 	I learned to do this from you . 
how ! 	what ! 
not dead ? 	I’m not dead ? 
oh ,  dispatch me ! 	oh ,  kill me ! 
what’s the noise ? 	what’s the trouble ? 
I have done my work ill ,  friends . 	I’ve botched the job ,  friends . 
oh ,  make an end Of what I have begun ! 	oh ,  finish what I’ve begun . 
the star is fall’n . 	our guiding light is out . 
and time is at his period . 	and time itself is ended . 
alas ,  and woe ! 	sadness and despair ! 
let him that loves me strike me dead . 	whoever’s a real friend should strike me dead . 
not I . 	not me . 
nor I . 	me neither . 
nor anyone . 	none of us . 
thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly . 	your death and destiny advise your followers to escape . 
this sword but shown to Caesar ,  with this tidings ,  Shall enter me with him . 	I only need to show your sword to Caesar and tell him about your death to get into his good favor . 
where’s Antony ? 	where’s Antony ? 
there ,  Diomed ,  there . 	there ,  Diomedes ,  there . 
lives he ? 	Is he still alive ? 
wilt thou not answer ,  man ? 	why don’t you answer me ,  man ? 
art thou there ,  Diomed ? 	Is that you ,  Diomedes ? 
draw thy sword and give me Sufficing strokes for death . 	draw your sword and give me enough blows to kill me . 
most absolute lord ,  My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee . 	most powerful lord ,  my mistress Cleopatra sent me to you . 
when did she send thee ? 	when did she send you ? 
now ,  my lord . 	just now ,  my lord . 
where is she ? 	where is she ? 
locked in her monument . 	locked in her tomb . 
she had a prophesying fear Of what hath come to pass . 	she had a premonition of what has actually happened . 
for when she saw— Which never shall be found—you did suspect She had disposed with Caesar ,  and that your rage Would not be purged ,  she sent you word she was dead . 	afraid that your anger would not subside ,  she sent you word she was dead . 
too late ,  good Diomed . 	too late ,  good Diomedes . 
call my guard ,  I prithee . 	call my guard ,  please . 
what ho ,  the Emperor’s guard ! 	hey out there ! 
bear me ,  good friends ,  where Cleopatra bides . 	carry me ,  good friends ,  to where Cleopatra is . 
tis the last service that I shall command you . 	It’s the last command I shall ever give you . 
woe ,  woe are we ,  sir ,  you may not live to wear All your true followers out . 	we’re very sorry ,  sir ,  that you may not live to wear us out with your commands . 
most heavy day ! 	It’s a very sad day . 
nay ,  good my fellows ,  do not please sharp fate To grace it with your sorrows . 	no ,  my friends ,  don’t please fate by giving it your sorrow as well . 
bid that welcome Which comes to punish us ,  and we punish it ,  Seeming to bear it lightly . 	If we welcome our punishment ,  we punish it right back by seeming to take it lightly . 
take me up . 	pick me up . 
I have led you oft; carry me now ,  good friends ,  And have my thanks for all . 	I have often led you ,  now you must carry me ,  my good friends—and take my thanks for everything . 
o Charmian ,  I will never go from hence . 	oh ,  Charmian ,  I will never leave this tomb ! 
be comforted ,  dear madam . 	be calm ,  dear lady . 
no ,  I will not . 	no ,  I won’t . 
all strange and terrible events are welcome ,  But comforts we despise . 	strange and terrible events are all welcome ,  but I despise comforts . 
our size of sorrow ,  Proportioned to our cause ,  must be as great As that which makes it . 	the size of my sorrow must be as great as its source . 
how now ? 	what’s the news ! 
Is he dead ? 	Is he dead ? 
his death’s upon him ,  but not dead . 	he is close to death ,  but not dead yet . 
o Antony ,  Antony ,  Antony ! 	oh ,  Antony ,  Antony ,  Antony ! 
help ,  Charmian ,  help ,  Iras ,  help ! 	help ,  Charmian ,  help ,  Iras ,  help ! 
peace ! 	be calm ! 
not Caesar’s valor hath o’erthrown Antony ,  But Antony’s hath triumphed on itself . 	It was not Caesar’s bravery that conquered Antony but Antony’s that has triumphed over himself . 
so it should be ,  that none but Antony Should conquer Antony ,  but woe ’tis so ! 	that’s the way it should be—only Antony should conquer Antony . 
nay ,  but this dotage of our general’s O’erflows the measure . 	no ,  our general’s infatuation is out of control . 
those his goodly eyes ,  That o’er the files and musters of the war Have glowed like plated Mars ,  now bend ,  now turn The office and devotion of their view Upon a tawny front . 	his eyes used to glow with pride when he reviewed his troops . 
his captain’s heart ,  Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst The buckles on his breast ,  reneges all temper And is become the bellows and the fan To cool a gypsy’s lust . 	his heart used to burst the buckles on his breastplate in great fights ,  but now he’s lost all temperance and dedicates his heart to satisfying the lust of an Egyptian whore . 
look where they come . 	look at them . 
take but good note ,  and you shall see in him The triple pillar of the world transformed Into a strumpet’s fool . 	take a good look ,  and you’ll see that one of the three men who rule the world has turned into a whore’s jester . 
behold and see . 	look and see . 
If it be love indeed ,  tell me how much . 	If what you feel is really love ,  tell me how much . 
there’s beggary in the love that can be reckoned . 	It would be a pretty stingy love if it could be counted and calculated . 
I’ll set a bourn how far to be beloved . 	I want to measure the extent of your love ,  to see how far it stretches . 
then must thou needs find out new heaven ,  new earth . 	then you would have to go beyond heaven ,  beyond earth . 
news ,  my good lord ,  from Rome . 	I have news from Rome ,  my good lord . 
I am dying ,  Egypt ,  dying . 	I am dying ,  Cleopatra ,  dying . 
only I here importune death awhile ,  until Of many thousand kisses the poor last I lay upon thy lips . 	I just beg death to wait awhile ,  until I place the last of our many thousands of kisses on your lips . 
I dare not ,  dear ,  Dear my lord ,  pardon ,  I dare not ,  Lest I be taken . 	I don’t dare come down—forgive me ,  my lord—I don’t dare ,  for fear of capture . 
not th’ imperious show Of the full - fortuned Caesar ever shall Be brooched with me . 	I will never be exhibited as lucky Caesar’s prize . 
If knife ,  drugs ,  serpents ,  have Edge ,  sting ,  or operation ,  I am safe . 	If knives ,  poison ,  or snakes have edge ,  effect ,  or venom ,  I am safe from that fate . 
your wife Octavia ,  with her modest eyes And still conclusion ,  shall acquire no honor Demuring upon me . 	your wife Octavia ,  with her self - effacing eyes and self - righteous assumptions ,  won’t get any praise from patronizing me . 
assist ,  good friends . 	help us ,  good friends . 
oh ,  quick ,  or I am gone . 	oh ,  quick ,  before I’m gone . 
here’s sport indeed ! 	such exercise ! 
how heavy weighs my lord ! 	my lord is so heavy ! 
had I great Juno’s power ,  The strong - winged Mercury should fetch thee up And set thee by Jove’s side . 	If I had the goddess Juno’s power ,  I would make the strong - winged messenger ,  Mercury ,  pick you up and seat you beside Jove . 
and welcome ,  welcome ! 	and welcome ,  welcome ! 
die when thou hast lived . 	die where you have lived ,  in my arms . 
had my lips that power ,  Thus would I wear them out . 	If my lips had the power to give life ,  I would wear them out like this . 
a heavy sight ! 	what a sad sight ! 
I am dying ,  Egypt ,  dying . 	I am dying ,  Cleopatra ,  dying . 
give me some wine and let me speak a little . 	give me some wine and let me say a few words . 
my resolution and my hands I’ll trust ,  None about Caesar . 	I’ll trust my determination and my hands ,  but none of Caesar’s men . 
now my spirit is going . 	now I feel my soul leaving . 
I can no more . 	I can’t speak any more . 
noblest of men ,  woo’t die ? 	most noble man ,  will you die ? 
hast thou no care of me ? 	don’t you care about me ? 
shall I abide In this dull world ,  which in thy absence is No better than a sty ? 	shall I stay in this dreary world ,  which is no better than a pigsty without you ? 
my lord ! 	my lord ! 
oh ,  withered is the garland of the war . 	oh ,  the glory of war has faded . 
the soldier’s pole is fall’n ! 	the flags have fallen . 
young boys and girls Are level now with men . 	young boys and girls are equal to men . 
the odds is gone ,  And there is nothing left remarkable Beneath the visiting moon . 	there is nothing distinctive ,  nothing remarkable left in the world . 
she’s dead too ,  our sovereign . 	our Queen is dead too . 
lady ! 	lady ! 
madam ! 	madam ! 
o madam ,  madam ,  madam ! 	oh ,  madam ,  madam ,  madam ! 
royal Egypt ,  Empress ! 	royal Egypt ,  Empress ! 
peace ,  peace ,  Iras . 	quiet ,  quiet ,  Iras . 
no more but e’en a woman ,  and commanded By such poor passion as the maid that milks And does the meanest chares . 	now I am no more than a woman ,  ruled by the same lowly passion as the maid who milks and does the humblest chores . 
all’s but naught . 	now all is for nothing . 
how do you ,  women ? 	how are you ,  my ladies ? 
what ,  what ,  good cheer ! 	cheer up ! 
why ,  how now ,  Charmian ? 	how are you ,  Charmian ? 
my noble girls ! 	my gallant girls ! 
good sirs ,  take heart . 	good noble ladies ,  be brave . 
we’ll bury him ,  and then ,  what’s brave ,  what’s noble ,  Let’s do ’t after the high Roman fashion And make death proud to take us . 	we’ll bury him ,  and then we’ll commit acts as brave and fine as any Romans ,  and make death proud to take us . 
come ,  away . 	come on ,  you can go . 
this case of that huge spirit now is cold . 	the container of that great soul is now cold . 
ah ,  women ,  women ! 	ah ,  ladies ,  ladies ! 
come . 	let’s go . 
we have no friend But resolution ,  and the briefest end . 	we have no friends but determination and the quickest death . 
go to him ,  Dolabella ,  bid him yield . 	tell him to surrender . 
being so frustrate ,  tell him ,  he mocks The pauses that he makes . 	his position is hopeless . 
caesar ,  I shall . 	right away ,  Caesar . 
wherefore is that ? 	what are you doing with a sword ? 
and what art thou that dar’st Appear thus to us ? 	who do you think you are coming in here armed ? 
I am called Dercetus . 	my name is Decretus . 
mark Antony I served ,  who best was worthy Best to be served . 	I served Mark Antony ,  who was the commander most worthy of my services . 
whilst he stood up and spoke ,  He was my master ,  and I wore my life To spend upon his haters . 	while he was alive ,  I lived only to serve him and oppose his enemies . 
If thou pleasest not ,  I yield thee up my life . 	If not ,  you can kill me . 
what is ’t thou say’st ? 	what are you saying ? 
I say ,  O Caesar ,  Antony is dead . 	caesar ,  I’m telling you that Antony is dead . 
the breaking of so great a thing should make A greater crack . 	when such a great man dies there should be a thunderclap . 
the round world Should have shook lions into civil streets And citizens to their dens . 	the fractured world ,  in its confusion ,  should send lions into the city streets and humans into the wilderness to live in lions’ dens . 
the death of Antony Is not a single doom . 	this isn’t the death of one man . 
In the name lay A moiety of the world . 	It’s the death of half the world . 
now ,  my dearest Queen— Pray you ,  stand farther from me . 	now ,  my dearest Queen— Please ,  stand farther away from me . 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
I know by that same eye there’s some good news . 	I can see in your eyes there’s been some good news . 
what ,  says the married woman you may go ? 	what ,  does your wife say you can come home ? 
would she had never given you leave to come ! 	I wish she’d never let you come . 
let her not say ’tis I that keep you here . 	don’t let her say I kept you . 
I have no power upon you . 	I have no power over you . 
hers you are . 	you belong to her . 
the gods best know—                                              Oh never was there queen So mightily betrayed ! 	the gods know— Oh ,  never has a queen been so betrayed as I have been . 
yet at the first I saw the treasons planted . 	I knew from the first it would be this way . 
cleopatra— Why should I think you can be mine ,  and true— Though you in swearing shake the thronèd gods— Who have been false to Fulvia ? 	cleopatra— How could I have ever thought that you would be faithful and true ,  even though your vows of love shook the heavens themselves—you ,  who were unfaithful to Fulvia ? 
riotous madness ,  To be entangled with those mouth - made vows Which break themselves in swearing ! 	It was wild insanity to believe promises made by the mouth and not the heart . 
when you sued staying ,  Then was the time for words . 	when you begged to stay ,  that was the time for words . 
no going then ! 	you didn’t want to go then ! 
eternity was in our lips and eyes ,  Bliss in our brows’ bent ,  none our parts so poor But was a race of heaven . 	you saw eternity in my lips and eyes ,  and happiness in the arch of my eyebrows . 
they are so still ,  Or thou ,  the greatest soldier of the world ,  Art turned the greatest liar . 	my features are still that beautiful—or else you ,  the greatest soldier in the world ,  have become the greatest liar by overpraising them . 
this is his sword . 	this is his sword . 
I robbed his wound of it . 	I pulled it from his wound . 
behold it stained With his most noble blood . 	look—his noble blood is still on it . 
look you ,  sad friends ,  The gods rebuke me ,  but it is tidings To wash the eyes of kings . 	listen ,  sad friends ,  though the gods may rebuke me ,  this news would make kings cry . 
his taints and honors Waged equal with him . 	his faults were equally matched by his virtues . 
a rarer spirit never Did steer humanity ,  but you gods will give us Some faults to make us men . 	but gods ,  you give us faults so we’ll be human . 
caesar is touched . 	caesar is upset . 
I must perforce Have shown to thee such a declining day ,  Or look on thine . 	either I had to ruin you ,  or you would have ruined me . 
hear me ,  good friends—	let me tell you ,  friends—
but I will tell you at some meeter season . 	I’ll tell you at a better time . 
the business of this man looks out of him . 	this man looks like his business is urgent . 
we’ll hear him what he says . 	let’s hear what he has to say . 
bid her have good heart . 	tell her to put her mind at rest . 
she soon shall know of us ,  by some of ours ,  How honorable and how kindly we Determine for her ,  for Caesar cannot live To be ungentle . 	she’ll find out soon enough by one of our messengers how respectfully and kindly we plan to treat her . 
so the gods preserve thee ! 	may the gods bless you . 
come hither ,  Proculeius . 	come here ,  Proculeius . 
go and say We purpose her no shame . 	tell her we mean her no disrespect . 
go ,  And with your speediest bring us what she says And how you find of her . 	go ,  and hurry back to bring us her reply and news of her state of mind . 
caesar ,  I shall . 	I will ,  Caesar . 
gallus ,  go you along . 	gallus ,  you go with him . 
where’s Dolabella ,  To second Proculeius ? 	where’s Dolabella ? 
dolabella ! 	dolabella ! 
let him alone ,  for I remember now How he’s employed . 	I remember he’s already occupied . 
he shall in time be ready . 	he’ll be done in time . 
go with me and see What I can show in this . 	come and see the proof . 
tis paltry to be Caesar . 	It’s pathetic to be Caesar . 
not being Fortune ,  he’s but Fortune’s knave ,  A minister of her will . 	he can’t be Fortune; he’s only Fortune’s errand boy . 
caesar sends greeting to the Queen of Egypt ,  And bids thee study on what fair demands Thou mean’st to have him grant thee . 	caesar greets the Queen of Egypt and asks that you consider what you will ask from him . 
what’s thy name ? 	what’s your name ? 
my name is Proculeius . 	my name is Proculeius . 
antony Did tell me of you ,  bade me trust you ,  but I do not greatly care to be deceived ,  That have no use for trusting . 	but I don’t worry about being deceived because I don’t need to trust . 
If your master Would have a queen his beggar ,  you must tell him ,  That majesty ,  to keep decorum ,  must No less beg than a kingdom . 	If your master wants a queen to beg from him ,  you should tell him that a queen will beg for no less than a kingdom . 
If he please To give me conquered Egypt for my son ,  He gives me so much of mine own as I Will kneel to him with thanks . 	If he will grant me conquered Egypt ,  so that I may give it to my son ,  I will kneel to him with thanks . 
be of good cheer . 	be content . 
you’re fall’n into a princely hand . 	you’re in the charge of an honorable man . 
fear nothing . 	don’t be afraid . 
let me report to him Your sweet dependency ,  and you shall find A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness Where he for grace is kneeled to . 	If I can tell him that you have submitted to him sweetly ,  he’ll request your assistance in finding ways in which he can support you . 
pray you ,  tell him I am his fortune’s vassal ,  and I send him The greatness he has got . 	please tell him I have surrendered to his fortune . 
I hourly learn A doctrine of obedience ,  and would gladly Look him i’ th’ face . 	I’m learning every hour how to be subservient . 
this I’ll report ,  dear lady . 	I’ll tell him all of this ,  dear lady . 
you see how easily she may be surprised . 	be at ease . 
royal Queen ! 	your majesty ! 
o Cleopatra ! 	oh ,  Cleopatra ! 
hold ,  worthy lady ,  hold ! 	stop ,  brave lady ,  stop ! 
do not yourself such wrong ,  who are in this Relieved but not betrayed . 	we have not betrayed you . 
what ,  of death too ,  That rids our dogs of languish ? 	what ,  am I being denied death ,  as well ? 
cleopatra ,  Do not abuse my master’s bounty by Th’ undoing of yourself . 	don’t insult my master’s generosity by killing yourself . 
let the world see His nobleness well acted ,  which your death Will never let come forth . 	your death would prevent that . 
where art thou ,  Death ? 	where are you ,  Death ? 
come hither ,  come ! 	come here . 
come ,  come and take a queen Worth many babes and beggars ! 	come ,  and you can have a queen . 
oh ,  temperance ,  lady ! 	oh ,  control yourself ,  lady ! 
this mortal house I’ll ruin ,  Do Caesar what he can . 	let Caesar do whatever he wants . 
know ,  sir ,  that I Will not wait pinioned at your master’s court ,  Nor once be chastised with the sober eye Of dull Octavia . 	you’d better understand that I won’t wait till I’m chained up in your master’s court ,  and I won’t let myself be scolded even once by dull Octavia . 
shall they hoist me up And show me to the shouting varletry Of censuring Rome ? 	shall I let them exhibit me to the shouting mobs of Rome ? 
rather a ditch in Egypt Be gentle grave unto me . 	I’d rather die in a ditch in Egypt ,  and make it my gentle grave . 
rather on Nilus’ mud Lay me stark naked and let the waterflies Blow me into abhorring . 	I’d rather lie in the Nile mud with flies laying their eggs in me ,  making me disgusting . 
rather make My country’s high pyramides my gibbet And hang me up in chains ! 	I’d rather be hung in chains from one of our pyramids ! 
you do extend These thoughts of horror further than you shall Find cause in Caesar . 	you’ll see that Caesar is giving you no reason to do so . 
proculeius ,  What thou hast done thy master Caesar knows ,  And he hath sent for thee . 	proculeius ,  Caesar has heard about what you’ve done here and has sent for you . 
for the Queen ,  I’ll take her to my guard . 	I’ll take the Queen into my custody . 
so ,  Dolabella ,  It shall content me best . 	so be it ,  Dolabella . 
be gentle to her . 	be kind to her . 
most noble Empress ,  you have heard of me ? 	have you heard of me ,  most noble Empress ? 
I cannot tell . 	I don’t remember . 
you laugh when boys or women tell their dreams . 	you must be the one who laughs when boys or women tell you their dreams . 
Is ’t not your trick ? 	Isn’t that your habit ? 
I understand not ,  madam . 	I don’t know what you mean ,  madam . 
I dreamt there was an emperor Antony . 	I dreamed about an emperor called Antony . 
oh ,  such another sleep ,  that I might see But such another man ! 	oh ,  I wish I could sleep again ,  so I could have another dream like that ! 
his reared arm Crested the world . 	when he raised his arm in command ,  the world trembled . 
for his bounty ,  There was no winter in ’t ,  an autumn ’twas That grew the more by reaping . 	there was no end to his generosity . 
In his livery Walked crowns and crownets . 	kings and noblemen served him . 
realms and islands were As plates dropped from his pocket . 	kingdoms and provinces dropped from his pockets like loose change . 
cleopatra— Think you there was or might be such a man As this I dreamt of ? 	cleopatra— Do you think there ever was ,  or could there ever be ,  a man such as the one I dreamed about ? 
gentle madam ,  no . 	no ,  gentle madam . 
you lie up to the hearing of the gods . 	the gods can hear you lying ! 
nature wants stuff To vie strange forms with fancy ,  yet t’ imagine An Antony were nature’s piece ’gainst fancy ,  Condemning shadows quite . 	antony would easily outshine all imaginary beings . 
hear me ,  good madam . 	listen to me ,  madam . 
your loss is as yourself ,  great ,  and you bear it As answering to the weight . 	you are a remarkable person and your loss is equally remarkable . 
would I might never O’ertake pursued success ,  but I do feel ,  By the rebound of yours ,  a grief that smites My very heart at root . 	I hope I never achieve success if I don’t feel some of your heartbroken grief right now . 
I thank you ,  sir . 	thank you ,  sir . 
know you what Caesar means to do with me ? 	do you know what Caesar intends to do with me ? 
I am loath to tell you what I would you knew . 	I’m reluctant to tell you what I wish you knew . 
arise ,  you shall not kneel . 	you need not kneel to me . 
I pray you ,  rise . 	please rise ,  Queen . 
sir ,  the gods Will have it thus . 	the gods have ordained it to be like this ,  sir . 
take to you no hard thoughts . 	don’t think I blame you . 
I’ll take my leave . 	I’ll leave you now . 
and may ,  through all the world ! 	you may do whatever you want in the world . 
tis yours ,  and we ,  Your scutcheons and your signs of conquest ,  shall Hang in what place you please . 	It’s yours ,  and you may hang us ,  your trophies of war ,  anywhere you like . 
here ,  my good lord . 	here ,  my good lord . 
how now ,  lady ? 	what do you mean ,  lady ? 
I would I had thy inches . 	I wish I were as big and strong as you . 
thou shouldst know There were a heart in Egypt . 	listen to me ,  Queen . 
hear me ,  Queen: The strong necessity of time commands Our services awhile ,  but my full heart Remains in use with you . 	there is an emergency I must take care of ,  but my whole heart will remain here with you . 
our Italy Shines o’er with civil swords . 	my Italy is full of civil war . 
sextus Pompeius Makes his approaches to the port of Rome . 	sextus Pompeius is sailing toward the port of Rome . 
my more particular ,  And that which most with you should safe my going ,  Is Fulvia’s death . 	but my personal motivation—and that which should move you most to sanction my departure—is that Fulvia is dead . 
can Fulvia die ? 	Is it possible Fulvia is dead ? 
she’s dead ,  my Queen . 	she’s dead ,  my Queen . 
you shall advise me in all for Cleopatra . 	you shall advise me in everything having to do with Cleopatra . 
this is the brief of money ,  plate ,  and jewels I am possessed of . 	this is the inventory of the money ,  silverware ,  dishes ,  and jewels that are still in my possession . 
tis exactly valued ,  Not petty things admitted . 	not even trivial things were left out . 
where’s Seleucus ? 	where’s Seleucus ? 
here ,  madam . 	here ,  madam . 
this is my treasurer . 	this is my treasurer . 
let him speak ,  my lord ,  Upon his peril ,  that I have reserved To myself nothing . 	my lord ,  he will swear on his life that I haven’t kept a thing . —Tell the truth ,  Seleucus . 
madam ,  I had rather seal my lips Than to my peril speak that which is not . 	madam ,  I’d rather sew my lips shut than tell a lie when my life depends upon it . 
what have I kept back ? 	what did I keep for myself ? 
enough to purchase what you have made known . 	enough to buy everything you have declared . 
nay ,  blush not ,  Cleopatra . 	no ,  don’t be ashamed ,  Cleopatra . 
see ,  Caesar ! 	look around you ,  Caesar . 
oh ,  behold How pomp is followed ! 	oh ,  just see what happens after the pageantry is over ! 
the ingratitude of this Seleucus does Even make me wild . 	seleucus’ ingratitude makes me wild . 
thou shalt Go back ,  I warrant thee ! 	I’ll give you a good reason to cringe ,  I promise you . 
but I’ll catch thine eyes ,  Though they had wings . 	I’ll scratch out your eyes ,  even if they could fly . 
oh ,  rarely base ! 	oh ,  that was unbelievably low ! 
cleopatra ,  Not what you have reserved nor what acknowledged Put we i’ th’ roll of conquest . 	cleopatra ,  our conquest won’t include either the things you kept back or the ones you listed . 
still be ’t yours . 	It’s all still yours . 
bestow it at your pleasure ,  and believe Caesar’s no merchant ,  to make prize with you Of things that merchants sold . 	do whatever you like with it . 
therefore be cheered . 	so cheer up . 
no ,  dear Queen ,  For we intend so to dispose you as Yourself shall give us counsel . 	no ,  dear Queen . 
feed and sleep . 	eat and sleep . 
our care and pity is so much upon you That we remain your friend . 	I have so much care and pity for you that you could call me friend . 
and so ,  adieu . 	and so ,  good - bye . 
my master ,  and my lord ! 	my master and my lord ! 
not so . 	not true . 
adieu . 	good - bye . 
but ,  hark thee ,  Charmian . 	but listen ,  Charmian . 
finish ,  good lady . 	It’s time to end it ,  good lady . 
madam ,  I will . 	I will ,  madam . 
where’s the Queen ? 	where’s the Queen ? 
behold ,  sir . 	look ,  sir . 
dolabella ! 	dolabella . 
make your best use of this . 	make the best use of this information you can . 
I have performed Your pleasure and my promise . 	I have done your bidding and fulfilled my promise . 
dolabella ,  I shall remain your debtor . 	dolabella ,  I will always be in debt to you . 
I your servant . 	and I your servant . 
adieu ,  good Queen . 	good - bye ,  good Queen . 
I must attend on Caesar . 	I must go attend Caesar . 
farewell ,  and thanks . 	farewell ,  and thanks . 
now ,  Iras ,  what think’st thou ? 	now ,  Iras ,  what do you think ? 
thou an Egyptian puppet shalt be shown In Rome ,  as well as I . 	you will be exhibited in Rome along with me ,  like Egyptian puppets . 
mechanic slaves With greasy aprons ,  rules ,  and hammers shall Uplift us to the view . 	crude slaves with greasy aprons ,  rulers ,  and hammers shall lift us up so everyone can see . 
the gods forbid ! 	the gods forbid ! 
nay ,  ’tis most certain ,  Iras . 	no ,  it’s certain ,  Iras . 
oh ,  the good gods ! 	Insolent  Oh ,  the good gods ! 
nay ,  that’s certain . 	no ,  that’s the truth . 
I’ll never see ’t ! 	I’ll never see it . 
for I am sure mine nails Are stronger than mine eyes . 	I know my nails are stronger than my eyes; I’ll scratch them out . 
why ,  that’s the way To fool their preparation and to conquer Their most absurd intents . 	why ,  that’s just the way to frustrate their plans and defeat their absurd intentions . 
now ,  Charmian ! 	now ,  Charmian ! 
show me ,  my women ,  like a queen . 	women ,  dress me like a queen . 
go fetch My best attires . 	go get my best clothes . 
wherefore’s this noise ? 	what’s that noise ? 
here is a rural fellow That will not be denied your Highness’ presence . 	there’s a farmer here who won’t leave without seeing your Highness . 
he brings you figs . 	he has brought you figs . 
let him come in . 	let him come in . 
what poor an instrument May do a noble deed ! 	what a poor instrument ,  that can do such a noble deed ! 
he brings me liberty . 	he brings me freedom . 
my resolution’s placed ,  and I have nothing Of woman in me . 	there’s nothing of the weak woman left in me . 
now from head to foot I am marble - constant . 	now from head to foot I’m as firm as marble . 
now the fleeting moon No planet is of mine . 	now the inconstant moon has nothing to do with me . 
this is the man . 	this is the man . 
avoid ,  and leave him . 	leave us . 
hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there ,  That kills and pains not ? 	do you have in there the pretty snake of the Nile that kills without pain ? 
truly ,  I have him ,  but I would not be the party that should desire you to touch him ,  for his biting is immortal . 	I certainly do have him ,  but I wouldn’t advise you to touch him . 
those that do die of it do seldom or never recover . 	people who die of it seldom or never recover . 
remember’st thou any that have died on ’t ? 	do you remember anyone who died of it ? 
very many ,  men and women too . 	many people ,  men and women alike . 
truly ,  she makes a very good report o’ th’ worm . 	Indeed ,  she gives a very good testimony of the snake’s power . 
but he that will believe all that they say shall never be saved by half that they do . 	but if you believe everything they say ,  you won’t be saved by half of what they do . 
but this is most falliable ,  the worm’s an odd worm . 	but this is a sure thing: the snake’s an odd snake . 
I wish you all joy of the worm . 	I hope you are pleased with the snake . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
you must think this ,  look you ,  that the worm will do his kind . 	you must know that the snake will act according to his nature . 
ay ,  ay . 	yes ,  yes . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
look you ,  the worm is not to be trusted but in the keeping of wise people ,  for indeed there is no goodness in the worm . 	there isn’t any kindness in the snake . 
very good . 	good . 
will it eat me ? 	will it eat me ? 
you must not think I am so simple but I know the devil himself will not eat a woman . 	don’t think I’m so dumb that I don’t know that the devil himself won’t eat a woman . 
well ,  get thee gone . 	well ,  you can go now . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
give me my robe . 	give me my robe . 
put on my crown . 	put on my crown . 
I have Immortal longings in me . 	I long to be immortal . 
yare ,  yare ,  good Iras ,  quick . 	quickly ,  quickly ,  good Iras ,  quickly . 
methinks I hear Antony call . 	I think I hear Antony call me . 
I see him rouse himself To praise my noble act . 	I see him revive himself to praise my noble act . 
I hear him mock The luck of Caesar ,  which the gods give men To excuse their after wrath . —Husband ,  I come ! 	I hear him mock Caesar’s luck ,  which the gods give to men in order to balance out their subsequent wrath . 
now to that name my courage prove my title ! 	now let my courage prove my title as wife . 
I am fire and air ,  my other elements I give to baser life . —So ,  have you done ? 	so ,  are you done ? 
come then and take the last warmth of my lips . 	come then ,  kiss me and take the last bit of warmth from my lips . 
farewell ,  kind Charmian . 	good - bye ,  kind Charmian . 
Iras ,  long farewell . 	Iras ,  I won’t see you again for a long time . 
have I the aspic in my lips ? 	do I have the asp’s poison on my lips ? 
dost fall ? 	did you fall ? 
If thou and nature can so gently part ,  The stroke of death is as a lover’s pinch ,  Which hurts ,  and is desired . 	If you can leave your body so easily ,  then the touch of death is like a lover’s pinch ,  which hurts but is desired . 
dost thou lie still ? 	do you lie still ? 
If thus thou vanishest ,  thou tell’st the world It is not worth leave - taking . 	If you leave like that ,  you tell the world that it’s not worthy of a good - bye . 
dissolve ,  thick cloud ,  and rain ,  that I may say The gods themselves do weep ! 	clouds ,  dissolve into rain ,  so that I could say the gods themselves are weeping ! 
come ,  thou mortal wretch ,  With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate Of life at once untie . 	separate me from life with your sharp teeth . 
poor venomous fool Be angry and dispatch . 	poor poisonous fool ,  be angry and bite . 
oh ,  couldst thou speak ,  That I might hear thee call great Caesar ass Unpolicied ! 	oh ,  if you could speak ,  I might hear you call Caesar an ass who’s been outsmarted ! 
o eastern star ! 	oh ,  eastern star ! 
peace ,  peace ! 	quiet ,  quiet ! 
dost thou not see my baby at my breast ,  That sucks the nurse asleep ? 	don’t you see my baby suckling at my breast so that its nurse will fall asleep ? 
as sweet as balm ,  as soft as air ,  as gentle— O Antony ! —Nay ,  I will take thee too . 	the poison is as sweet as balm ,  as soft as air ,  as gentle—Oh ,  Antony ! —No ,  I’ll take you too . 
what should I stay— In this wild world ? 	why should I stay— In this vile world ? 
so ,  fare thee well . 	so ,  good - bye . 
now boast thee ,  Death ,  in thy possession lies A lass unparalleled . 	now ,  Death ,  you can boast that you have an incomparable girl in your possession . 
downy windows ,  close , 	close ,  soft eyes . 
and golden Phoebus never be beheld Of eyes again so royal ! 	the sun will never be seen by such royal eyes again . 
your crown’s awry . 	your crown is crooked . 
I’ll mend it and then play— Where’s the Queen ? 	I’ll straighten it ,  then play— Where’s the Queen ? 
speak softly . 	speak softly . 
wake her not . 	don’t wake her . 
caesar hath sent—                                        Too slow a messenger . 	caesar has sent— Too slow a messenger . 
oh ,  come apace ,  dispatch ! 	oh ,  come quickly ! 
I partly feel thee . 	I almost feel you . 
there’s Dolabella sent from Caesar . 	there’s Dolabella ,  who was sent from Caesar . 
call him . 	call him . 
what work is here ,  Charmian ? 	what kind of work is this ,  Charmian ? 
Is this well done ? 	Is this well done ? 
It is well done and fitting for a princess Descended of so many royal kings . 	It is well done ,  and appropriate for a princess who has descended from so many royal kings . 
ah ,  soldier ! 	ah ,  soldier ! 
how goes it here ? 	what’s going on in here ? 
all dead . 	they’re all dead . 
caesar ,  thy thoughts Touch their effects in this . 	caesar ,  you thought this would happen . 
thyself art coming To see performed the dreaded act which thou So sought’st to hinder . 	you’re coming here yourself to see the dreaded act you had tried to stop . 
o most false love ! 	oh ,  unfaithful lover ! 
where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill With sorrowful water ? 	stop arguing and listen to my plans . 
now I see ,  I see ,  In Fulvia’s death how mine received shall be . 	whether I go ahead with them or not is completely up to you . 
by the fire That quickens Nilus’ slime ,  I go from hence Thy soldier ,  servant ,  making peace or war As thou affects . 	I swear by the sun that when I leave here ,  it will be as your faithful servant . 
cut my lace ,  Charmian ,  come ! 	cut my corset laces ,  Charmian ,  so I can breathe . 
but let it be . 	hurry ! 
I am quickly ill ,  and well ,  So Antony loves . 	just as Antony loves . 
my precious Queen ,  forbear ,  And give true evidence to his love which stands An honorable trial . 	control yourself ,  my precious Queen ,  and concede that my love is true . 
so Fulvia told me . 	that’s what Fulvia told me . 
I prithee ,  turn aside and weep for her . 	I beg you ,  turn away and cry for her . 
then bid adieu to me ,  and say the tears Belong to Egypt . 	then say good - bye to me and tell me those tears were for my benefit . 
o sir ,  you are too sure an augurer . 	oh ,  sir ,  you are too good at predicting the future . 
that you did fear is done . 	what you were afraid of has happened . 
the manner of their deaths ? 	how did they die ? 
I do not see them bleed . 	I don’t see any blood . 
who was last with them ? 	who was with them last ? 
a simple countryman that brought her figs . 	a simple country farmer who brought her figs . 
this was his basket . 	this was the basket . 
poisoned ,  then . 	they were poisoned ,  then . 
oh ,  Caesar ,  This Charmian lived but now . 	oh ,  Caesar ,  this Charmian lived until a moment ago . 
she stood and spake . 	she stood and spoke . 
I found her trimming up the diadem On her dead mistress . 	I found her adjusting the crown on her dead mistress . 
tremblingly she stood And on the sudden dropped . 	she stood trembling ,  then suddenly dropped dead . 
oh ,  noble weakness ! 	oh ,  noble weakness ! 
here on her breast There is a vent of blood ,  and something blown . 	here on her breast there’s a little bloody mark . 
the like is on her arm . 	there’s a similar mark on her arm . 
this is an aspic’s trail ,  and these fig leaves Have slime upon them ,  such as th’ aspic leaves Upon the caves of Nile . 	this is an asp’s trail ,  and these fig leaves have slime on them ,  just like the kind that asps deposit on the caves by the Nile . 
take up her bed And bear her women from the monument . 	pick up her bed and carry her ladies out of the tomb . 
she shall be buried by her Antony . 	she shall be buried next to her Antony . 
no grave upon the earth shall clip in it A pair so famous . 	no other grave on earth shall hold a pair this famous . 
our army shall In solemn show attend this funeral ,  And then to Rome . 	our army shall somberly attend this funeral and then depart for Rome . 
come ,  Dolabella ,  see High order in this great solemnity . 	come ,  Dolabella . 
you’ll heat my blood . 	you’ll make me angry . 
no more . 	no more of this . 
you can do better yet ,  but this is meetly . 	I know you can do better than that ,  but it’ll do for now . 
now ,  by my sword—                                              And target . 	I swear by my sword— Swear by your shield ,  too ! 
I’ll leave you ,  lady . 	I’ll leave you ,  lady . 
courteous lord ,  one word . 	polite sir ,  let me say one thing . 
sir ,  you and I must part ,  but that’s not it . 	sir ,  you and I must part company—no ,  that’s not it . 
tis sweating labor To bear such idleness so near the heart As Cleopatra this . 	It’s difficult to have such immaturity so close to my heart ,  but bear with me . 
but ,  sir ,  forgive me ,  Since my becomings kill me when they do not Eye well to you . 	even the traits that become me most kill me when you don’t approve of them . 
your honor calls you hence . 	your honor is the reason you are leaving . 
therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly ,  And all the gods go with you ! 	may the gods be with you . 
upon your sword Sit laurel victory ,  and smooth success Be strewed before your feet . 	may your sword be victorious and everything you do succeed . 
let us go . 	let’s go . 
come . 	come with me . 
our separation so abides and flies That thou ,  residing here ,  goes yet with me ,  And I ,  hence fleeting ,  here remain with thee . 	our imminent separation so occupies our thoughts that even though you stay here ,  you come with me ,  and even though I leave here ,  I stay with you . 
you are too indulgent . 	you’re too forgiving . 
say this becomes him— As his composure must be rare indeed Whom these things cannot blemish—yet must Antony No way excuse his foils when we do bear So great weight in his lightness . 	even if we said that this behavior suits him—though only a man with a perfect character could avoid being disgraced by such antics—there’s no excuse for the extra work we’ve had to take on while he’s been off amusing himself . 
If he filled His vacancy with his voluptuousness ,  Full surfeits and the dryness of his bones Call on him for ’t . 	If he’s been spending his leisure time in lustful pursuits ,  then he’ll be punished with venereal diseases ,  and that’s his business . 
here’s more news . 	here’s more news . 
pompey is strong at sea ,  And it appears he is beloved of those That only have feared Caesar . 	pompey has a strong navy . 
I should have known no less . 	I should have known it . 
It hath been taught us from the primal state That he which is was wished until he were ,  And the ebbed man ,  ne’er loved till ne’er worth love ,  Comes deared by being lacked . 	It’s been this way ever since the first government was organized . 
caesar ,  I bring thee word Menecrates and Menas ,  famous pirates ,  Make the sea serve them ,  which they ear and wound With keels of every kind . 	caesar ,  I have news about Menecrates and Menas ,  notorious pirates who prowl the sea in a variety of ships . 
many hot inroads They make in Italy—the borders maritime Lack blood to think on ’t—and flush youth revolt . 	they’ve made many raids upon Italy—and the naval patrols go pale at even the thought of resisting them . 
antony ,  Leave thy lascivious wassails . 	antony ,  it’s time to stop your wild hedonism . 
when thou once Wast beaten from Modena ,  where thou slew’st Hirtius and Pansa ,  consuls ,  at thy heel Did famine follow ,  whom thou fought’st against ,  Though daintily brought up ,  with patience more Than savages could suffer . 	and even though you were brought up as a gentleman ,  you patiently tolerated more hardships than savages could withstand . 
thou didst drink The stale of horses and the gilded puddle Which beasts would cough at . 	you drank horses’ urine and water from scum - covered puddles that even animals would refuse . 
tis pity of him . 	It’s too bad . 
let his shames quickly Drive him to Rome . 	let’s hope his sense of shame will send him back to Rome quickly . 
tis time we twain Did show ourselves i’ th’ field ,  and to that end Assemble we immediate council . 	It’s time that we brought our armies into the field . 
pompey Thrives in our idleness . 	pompey is making the most of our absence . 
tomorrow ,  Caesar ,  I shall be furnished to inform you rightly Both what by sea and land I can be able To front this present time . 	tomorrow ,  Caesar ,  I’ll be able to tell you what land and sea forces I can raise for this war . 
till which encounter It is my business too . 	I’ll be getting my own figures together in the meantime . 
farewell . 	good - bye . 
farewell ,  my lord . 	good - bye ,  my lord . 
charmian ! 	charmian ! 
madam ? 	madam ? 
that I might sleep out this great gap of time My Antony is away . 	so I can sleep away the time while my Antony is gone . 
you think of him too much . 	you think about him too much . 
oh ,  ’tis treason ! 	that’s treason ! 
madam ,  I trust ,  not so . 	I hope not ,  Madam . 
what’s your highness’ pleasure ? 	what can I do for your highness ? 
not now to hear thee sing . 	I don’t want to hear you sing . 
I take no pleasure In aught an eunuch has . 	I’m not interested in anything a eunuch can do . 
tis well for thee That ,  being unseminared ,  thy freer thoughts May not fly forth of Egypt . 	It’s a good thing for you that ,  being castrated ,  you can better concentrate on my needs . 
hast thou affections ? 	do you have desires ? 
yes ,  gracious madam . 	yes ,  dear madam . 
Indeed ? 	Indeed ? 
not in deed ,  madam ,  for I can do nothing But what indeed is honest to be done . 	well ,  not in deed ,  madam ,  since I can’t do anything unchaste . 
stands he or sits he ? 	Is he standing or sitting ? 
or does he walk ? 	or is he walking ? 
or is he on his horse ? 	or is he on his horse ? 
o happy horse ,  to bear the weight of Antony ! 	oh ,  how fortunate that horse is to have Antony on him . 
he’s speaking now ,  Or murmuring  “ Where’s my serpent of old Nile ?  ”  For so he calls me . 	he’s speaking now ,  or perhaps he’s whispering ,   “ Where’s my serpent of the Nile ?  ”  For that’s his pet name for me . 
now I feed myself With most delicious poison . 	I’m killing myself with this provocative speculation  .   .   . 
think on me ,  That am with Phoebus’ amorous pinches black And wrinkled deep in time . 	are you thinking about me ? 
nay ,  hear them ,  Antony . 	no ,  listen to it ,  Antony . 
perform ’t ,  or else we damn thee .  ”                                                                      How ,  my love ? 	perhaps  What ,  my love ? 
perchance ? 	maybe ? 
nay ,  and most like . 	no ,  most likely . 
you must not stay here longer . 	you can’t stay here any longer . 
call in the messengers . 	call in the messengers and we’ll find out . 
as I am Egypt’s queen ,  Thou blushest ,  Antony ,  and that blood of thine Is Caesar’s homager . 	as surely as I am the queen of Egypt ,  Antony ,  you’re blushing ,  which means you’re Caesar’s servant . 
the messengers ! 	call the messengers ! 
sovereign of Egypt ,  hail ! 	queen of Egypt ,  greetings ! 
how much unlike art thou Mark Antony ! 	you are nothing like Mark Antony ! 
yet ,  coming from him ,  that great med’cine hath With his tinct gilded thee . 	but since you come from him ,  you’re saturated with his healing spirit . 
how goes it with my brave Mark Antony ? 	how does it go with my magnificent Mark Antony ? 
last thing he did ,  dear Queen ,  He kissed—the last of many doubled kisses— This orient pearl . 	the last thing he did before sending me off ,  dear Queen ,  was to kiss—the last of many such kisses—this Indian pearl for you . 
mine ear must pluck it thence . 	my ear must pull it out . 
good friend ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ Say the firm Roman to great Egypt sends This treasure of an oyster ,  at whose foot ,  To mend the petty present ,  I will piece Her opulent throne with kingdoms . 	good friend ,  ”  he said ,   “ say that the faithful Roman sends an oyster’s treasure to the great Queen of Egypt ,  and that he plans to enhance this meager gift by adding new kingdoms to her empire . 
all the East ,  Say thou ,  shall call her mistress .  ”  So he nodded ,  And soberly did mount an arm - gaunt steed ,  Who neighed so high that what I would have spoke Was beastly dumbed by him . 	tell her that the entire East shall call her Queen .  ”  Then he nodded and solemnly mounted an armored warhorse ,  which neighed so loudly it effectively silenced anything I might have said in reply . 
what was he ,  sad or merry ? 	was he sad or happy ? 
like to the time o’ th’ year between the extremes Of hot and cold ,  he was nor sad nor merry . 	he was like that time of year halfway between the extremes of hot and cold: he was neither sad nor happy . 
note him ,  Note him ,  good Charmian ,  ’tis the man ,  but note him . 	just notice . 
he was not sad ,  for he would shine on those That make their looks by his . 	he wasn’t sad ,  because he knows that his disposition affects others . 
he was not merry ,  Which seemed to tell them his remembrance lay In Egypt with his joy ,  but between both . 	he was somewhere in the middle ,  between them  .   .   . 
o heavenly mingle ! 	oh ,  heavenly mixture ! 
be’st thou sad or merry ,  The violence of either thee becomes ,  So does it no man else . —Mett’st thou my posts ? 	whether you are sad or merry ,  the intensity of either suits you like no one else  .   .   . 
ay ,  madam ,  twenty several messengers . 	yes ,  madam ,  twenty different messengers . 
why do you send so thick ? 	why did you send so many ? 
who’s born that day When I forget to send to Antony Shall die a beggar . 	whoever is born on a day I forget to send a message to Antony will die a beggar . 
Ink and paper ,  Charmian . 	bring ink and paper ,  Charmian . 
welcome ,  my good Alexas . 	welcome ,  my good Alexas . 
did I ,  Charmian ,  Ever love Caesar so ? 	charmian ,  did I ever love Caesar as much as this ? 
oh ,  that brave Caesar ! 	oh ,  that splendid Caesar ! 
be choked with such another emphasis ! 	may you choke on any other sentiments like that ! 
say ,   “ the brave Antony .  ”                                                  The valiant Caesar ! 	say ,   “ That splendid Antony .  ”  The courageous Caesar ! 
by Isis ,  I will give thee bloody teeth If thou with Caesar paragon again My man of men . 	by Isis ,  I’ll give you bloody teeth if you ever compare Caesar with Antony ,  my best man among men . 
by your most gracious pardon ,  I sing but after you . 	pardon me ,  but I’m just repeating what you yourself have said . 
my salad days ,  When I was green in judgment ,  cold in blood ,  To say as I said then . 	that was when I was young and inexperienced and didn’t know what passion was . 
we ,  ignorant of ourselves ,  Beg often our own harms ,  which the wise powers Deny us for our good ,  so find we profit By losing of our prayers . 	In that case ,  the wise gods deny our prayers for our own good . 
I shall do well . 	I’ll do well . 
the people love me ,  and the sea is mine . 	the people are on my side ,  and I’m in charge of the sea . 
my powers are crescent ,  and my auguring hope Says it will come to th’ full . 	my forces are growing ,  and everything I know tells me it’s all coming together . 
mark Antony In Egypt sits at dinner ,  and will make No wars without doors . 	mark Antony is at dinner in Egypt and won’t be going outside to make war . 
caesar gets money where He loses hearts . 	caesar loses supporters wherever he raises money . 
lepidus flatters both ,  Of both is flattered ,  but he neither loves ,  Nor either cares for him . 	lepidus flatters both of them ,  as they flatter him ,  but he doesn’t love them ,  and they don’t love him . 
caesar and Lepidus Are in the field . 	caesar and Lepidus are organizing their military operation . 
a mighty strength they carry . 	they have a massive army . 
where have you this ? 	where did you hear this ? 
tis false . 	It’s not true . 
from Silvius ,  sir . 	from Silvius ,  sir . 
he dreams . 	he’s dreaming . 
I know they are in Rome together Looking for Antony . 	I know they’re in Rome together ,  hoping for Antony to return . 
but all the charms of love ,  Salt Cleopatra ,  soften thy wanned lip ! 	lecherous Cleopatra ,  may all the charms of love soften those withered lips ! 
let witchcraft join with beauty ,  lust with both . 	join your witchcraft with your beauty ,  and let Antony’s lust combine with both . 
tie up the libertine in a field of feasts ,  Keep his brain fuming . 	keep this libertine occupied with endless debauchery . 
this is most certain that I shall deliver: Mark Antony is every hour in Rome Expected . 	this news is absolutely true: Mark Antony is expected to arrive in Rome at any hour now . 
since he went from Egypt ’tis A space for farther travel . 	In the time since he left Egypt ,  he could have traveled an even longer distance . 
his soldiership Is twice the other twain . 	his military ability is double that of the other two . 
but let us rear The higher our opinion ,  that our stirring Can from the lap of Egypt’s widow pluck The ne’er lust - wearied Antony . 	we must form a better opinion of ourselves if our uprising can pull the insatiable Antony’s attention away from that Egyptian widow . 
I cannot hope Caesar and Antony shall well greet together . 	I don’t expect Caesar and Antony will have a very friendly reunion . 
I know not ,  Menas ,  How lesser enmities may give way to greater . 	menas ,  I don’t understand how minor quarrels can be superseded by greater ones . 
be ’t as our gods will have ’t . 	It will be as the gods see fit . 
It only stands Our lives upon to use our strongest hands . 	In any case ,  our survival depends on putting together the strongest force possible . 
come ,  Menas . 	let’s go ,  Menas . 
good Enobarbus ,  ’tis a worthy deed ,  And shall become you well ,  to entreat your captain To soft and gentle speech . 	good Enobarbus ,  you would be doing a very good thing if you advised your captain to speak calmly and quietly . 
I shall entreat him To answer like himself . 	I will advise him to speak as he usually does . 
by Jupiter ,  Were I the wearer of Antonio’s beard ,  I would not shave ’t today . 	by Jupiter ,  if I were Antony ,  I wouldn’t shave my beard today . 
tis not a time for private stomaching . 	this is not the time for dwelling on personal grievances . 
but small to greater matters must give way . 	but major issues must come before minor ones . 
not if the small come first . 	not if the minor ones come up first . 
here comes the noble Antony . 	here comes the noble Antony . 
and yonder ,  Caesar . 	and there comes Caesar . 
tis spoken well . 	you’re right . 
were we before our armies ,  and to fight ,  I should do thus . 	If we were in front of our armies ,  about to fight ,  I would do this . 
welcome to Rome . 	welcome to Rome . 
thank you . 	thank you . 
sit . 	have a seat . 
sit ,  sir . 	after you . 
nay ,  then . 	no ,  after you . 
I must be laughed at If or for nothing or a little ,  I Should say myself offended ,  and with you Chiefly i’ th’ world; more laughed at ,  that I should Once name you derogately ,  when to sound your name It not concerned me . 	I should be ridiculed if I were offended so easily—and laughed at even more for speaking of you disrespectfully ,  when I had no reason to speak of you at all . 
my being in Egypt ,  Caesar ,  what was ’t to you ? 	caesar ,  what did my stay in Egypt have to do with you ? 
no more than my residing here at Rome Might be to you in Egypt . 	no more than my staying here in Rome might mean to you in Egypt . 
yet if you there Did practice on my state ,  your being in Egypt Might be my question . 	but if you conspired against my position while you were there ,  I might be interested in the reason for your stay in Egypt . 
how intend you ,   “ practiced ”  ? 	how do you mean ,   “ conspired ”  ? 
you may be pleased to catch at mine intent By what did here befall me . 	you can judge for yourself what I mean . 
your wife and brother Made wars upon me ,  and their contestation Was theme for you . 	your wife and brother led troops against me ,  claiming to be fighting in your name . 
you were the word of war . 	they said they were acting for you . 
you do mistake your business . 	you’re mistaken . 
my brother never Did urge me in his act . 	my brother didn’t use my name to justify his rebellion . 
did he not rather Discredit my authority with yours ,  And make the wars alike against my stomach ,  Having alike your cause ? 	he rejected my authority as much as yours . 
of this my letters Before did satisfy you . 	I’ve already sent the proof in my letters . 
If you’ll patch a quarrel ,  As matter whole you have to make it with ,  It must not be with this . 	If you want to pick a fight ,  you’ll have to find a more substantial excuse . 
you praise yourself By laying defects of judgment to me ,  but You patched up your excuses . 	you defend yourself by blaming my judgment ,  but you’re just making up feeble excuses . 
not so ,  not so . 	not true ,  not true . 
I know you could not lack ,  I am certain on ’t ,  Very necessity of this thought ,  that I ,  Your partner in the cause ’gainst which he fought ,  Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars Which fronted mine own peace . 	you know I would never approve a war against my own cause . 
as for my wife ,  I would you had her spirit in such another . 	as for my wife ,  if only you had such a wife . 
the third o’ th’ world is yours ,  which with a snaffle You may pace easy ,  but not such a wife . 	It’s easier to rule a third of the world than a wife like that . 
for that you must But say I could not help it . 	but you can’t blame me for her offenses . 
I wrote to you When rioting in Alexandria . 	I sent you a letter while you were carousing in Alexandria . 
three kings I had newly feasted ,  and did want Of what I was i’ th’ morning . 	I was not myself ,  as a result of the wine . 
but next day I told him of myself ,  which was as much As to have asked him pardon . 	the next day I explained all this to him ,  which was as good as begging his pardon . 
let this fellow Be nothing of our strife . 	let’s not fight over this fellow . 
hear the ambassadors . 	meet with the ambassadors . 
no messenger but thine ,  and all alone Tonight we’ll wander through the streets and note The qualities of people . 	tonight we’ll wander through the streets and observe the people . 
you have broken The article of your oath ,  which you shall never Have tongue to charge me with . 	you will never be able to say the same about me . 
soft ,  Caesar . 	go on ,  Caesar . 
no ,  Lepidus ,  let him speak . 	what part of the agreement did I break ? 
the honor is sacred which he talks on now ,  Supposing that I lacked it . —But ,  on ,  Caesar . 	you agreed to send me troops and weapons when I needed them . 
the article of my oath ? 	you refused me both . 
to lend me arms and aid when I required them ,  The which you both denied . 	I overlooked your request ,  but I did not deny it . 
neglected ,  rather ,  And then when poisoned hours had bound me up From mine own knowledge . 	your request came at a time when the poisonous effects of reveling caused me to be unaware of my own actions . 
tis noble spoken . 	spoken like a gentleman . 
If it might please you to enforce no further The griefs between ye ,  to forget them quite Were to remember that the present need Speaks to atone you . 	If it’s okay with you ,  you should not press your grievances any further ,  but realize that the current situation should be enough to reconcile you . 
worthily spoken ,  Maecenas . 	well put ,  Maecenas . 
or ,  if you borrow one another’s love for the instant ,  you may ,  when you hear no more words of Pompey ,  return it again . 	or you can pretend to settle your differences until this matter with Pompey is finished . 
you shall have time to wrangle in when you have nothing else to do . 	you can argue as much as you like when there’s nothing else to do . 
thou art a soldier only . 	you are only a soldier . 
therefore speak no more . 	don’t speak any further . 
go to ,  then . 	as you please . 
give me leave ,  Caesar . 	may I speak ,  Caesar . 
speak ,  Agrippa . 	what is it ,  Agrippa ? 
thou hast a sister by the mother’s side ,  Admired Octavia . 	you have a beautiful half - sister ,  Octavia . 
great Mark Antony Is now a widower . 	great Mark Antony is a widower now . 
say not so ,  Agrippa . 	you’d better not make that suggestion ,  Agrippa . 
If Cleopatra heard you ,  your reproof Were well deserved of rashness . 	If Cleopatra heard you ,  you would be well punished for your audacity . 
I am not married ,  Caesar . 	It’s true I’m not married ,  Caesar . 
let me hear Agrippa further speak . 	let me hear what Agrippa has to say . 
by this marriage ,  All little jealousies ,  which now seem great ,  And all great fears ,  which now import their dangers ,  Would then be nothing . 	with this marriage ,  all the petty jealousies that now seem huge ,  and all the great fears that are dangerous in themselves ,  would disappear . 
her love to both Would each to other and all loves to both Draw after her . 	since she would love both of you ,  you two would be joined in that love . 
will Caesar speak ? 	what do you say ,  Caesar ? 
the power of Caesar ,  and His power unto Octavia . 	he has both my power and my influence over Octavia . 
may I never To this good purpose ,  that so fairly shows ,  Dream of impediment ! 	I wouldn’t dream of opposing such an obviously promising idea . 
there’s my hand . 	here’s my hand . 
a sister I bequeath you whom no brother Did ever love so dearly . 	I give you a sister whom I love more than a brother ever loved any sister . 
let her live To join our kingdoms and our hearts ,  and never Fly off our loves again ! 	she will be the bond that joins our kingdoms and our hearts . 
happily ,  amen ! 	I’m happy to say  “ amen ”  to that ! 
I did not think to draw my sword ’gainst Pompey ,  For he hath laid strange courtesies and great Of late upon me . 	I didn’t think I would ever fight Pompey . 
time calls upon ’s . 	there isn’t much time . 
of us must Pompey presently be sought ,  Or else he seeks out us . 	either we go after Pompey or he’ll come after us . 
where lies he ? 	where is he now ? 
what is his strength by land ? 	near  How large is his land army ? 
great and increasing . 	large and increasing . 
but by sea he is an absolute master . 	but his navy rules the sea . 
so is the fame . 	that’s what I hear . 
let us ,  Lepidus ,  not lack your company . 	come with us ,  Lepidus . 
noble Antony ,  not sickness should detain me . 	noble Antony ,  even illness couldn’t keep me away . 
good Enobarbus ! 	good Enobarbus ! 
we have cause to be glad that matters are so well digested . 	we can be happy that things have been resolved so agreeably . 
you stayed well by ’t in Egypt . 	and I see you survived your time in Egypt . 
eight wild boars roasted whole at a breakfast—and but twelve persons there ! 	we heard that once you were served eight wild boars roasted whole for breakfast—for only twelve people ! 
Is this true ? 	Is that true ? 
this was but as a fly by an eagle . 	that was nothing . 
we had much more monstrous matter of feast ,  which worthily deserved noting . 	there were many even more memorable feasts . 
she’s a most triumphant lady ,  if report be square to her . 	she’s a remarkable lady ,  if the rumors are to be believed . 
I will tell you . 	I’ll tell you . 
the poop was beaten gold ,  Purple the sails ,  and so perfumèd that The winds were lovesick with them . 	the sails were dyed purple ,  and they were perfumed so heavily that they made the air seem dizzy with love . 
the oars were silver ,  Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke ,  and made The water which they beat to follow faster ,  As amorous of their strokes . 	the oars were made of silver ,  and the oarsmen rowed in time to flute music . 
on each side her Stood pretty dimpled boys ,  like smiling Cupids ,  With divers - colored fans ,  whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool ,  And what they undid did . 	pretty ,  Cupid - like boys stood on either side of her ,  smiling and cooling her with multicolored fans ,  which seemed to fan the flames in her cheeks even as they cooled them ,  undoing what they did . 
oh ,  rare for Antony ! 	how excellent for Antony ! 
upon her landing ,  Antony sent to her ,  Invited her to supper . 	when she landed at the port ,  Antony sent an invitation for her to come to supper . 
she replied It should be better he became her guest ,  Which she entreated . 	she replied by saying that it would be better for him to be her guest instead . 
royal wench ! 	royal seductress ! 
now Antony must leave her utterly . 	now Antony has to leave her completely . 
age cannot wither her ,  nor custom stale Her infinite variety . 	age won’t wither her ,  and her charms are so varied that she never grows boring . 
other women cloy The appetites they feed ,  but she makes hungry Where most she satisfies ,  for vilest things Become themselves in her ,  that the holy priests Bless her when she is riggish . 	even her worst faults are charming ,  and holy priests bless her even when she acts the slut . 
let us go . 	let’s go . 
good Enobarbus ,  make yourself my guest Whilst you abide here . 	good Enobarbus ,  consider yourself my guest as long as you’re here . 
humbly ,  sir ,  I thank you . 	I humbly thank you . 
all which time Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers To them for you . 	and I will spend our time apart on my knees ,  praying for you . 
good night . 	good night . 
If you can ,  your reason ? 	tell me why ,  if you can . 
but yet hie you to Egypt again . 	but you had better get back to Egypt again . 
say to me whose fortunes shall rise higher ,  Caesar’s or mine ? 	tell me who shall have the better luck ,  Caesar or me ? 
caesar’s . 	caesar . 
therefore ,  O Antony ,  stay not by his side . 	so you’d better not stay with him ,  Antony . 
thy dæmon—that thy spirit which keeps thee—is Noble ,  courageous ,  high ,  unmatchable Where Caesar’s is not . 	your guardian angel is noble ,  courageous ,  significant ,  and unmatched when Caesar’s not around . 
but near him thy angel Becomes afeard ,  as being o’erpowered . 	but when you are with him ,  your angel is weakened and easily frightened . 
therefore Make space enough between you . 	that’s why there must be space between you . 
rest you happy ! 	have a good night ! 
speak this no more . 	don’t speak of this again . 
to none but thee ,  no more but when to thee . 	to none but you ,  only to you . 
If thou dost play with him at any game ,  Thou art sure to lose ,  and of that natural luck He beats thee ’gainst the odds . 	with his natural luck ,  he will beat you even against the odds . 
thy luster thickens When he shines by . 	your light dulls when he is near . 
I will to Egypt . 	leave now . 
and though I make this marriage for my peace ,  I’ th’ East my pleasure lies . 	tell Ventidius I want to speak with him . 
o come ,  Ventidius . 	come here ,  Ventidius . 
you must to Parthia . 	you must go to Parthia . 
your commission’s ready . 	your authorization is ready . 
follow me and receive ’t . 	come with me and I’ll get it for you . 
trouble yourselves no further . 	don’t spend any more time here . 
pray you ,  hasten Your generals after . 	go tell your generals to hurry their preparations . 
sir ,  Mark Antony Will e’en but kiss Octavia ,  and we’ll follow . 	sir ,  we’ll follow as soon as Mark Antony kisses Octavia good - bye . 
till I shall see you in your soldiers’ dress ,  Which will become you both ,  farewell . 	good - bye then ,  until the time I see you dressed in your battle gear ,  which will suit you both very well . 
your way is shorter . 	you’re taking a shorter route . 
my purposes do draw me much about . 	my plans take me a roundabout way . 
you’ll win two days upon me . 	you’ll get there two days before me . 
sir ,  good success . 	good luck ,  sir . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
give me some music . 	play me some music . 
music ,  moody food Of us that trade in love . 	music feeds the melancholy moods of us lovers . 
the music ,  ho ! 	musicians ,  come in ! 
let it alone . 	never mind . 
let’s to billiards . 	let’s play billiards . 
come ,  Charmian . 	play with me ,  Charmian . 
my arm is sore . 	my arm is sore . 
as well as I can ,  madam . 	I’ll do my best ,  madam . 
I’ll none now . 	I don’t want to play now . 
give me mine angle . 	give me my fishing rod . 
we’ll to th’ river . 	we’ll go to the river . 
there ,  My music playing far off ,  I will betray Tawny - finned fishes . 	with my music playing in the background ,  I’ll lure fish . 
ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears ,  That long time have been barren . 	cram your good news into my ears . 
madam ,  madam— Antonio’s dead ! 	madam ,  madam— Antony’s dead ! 
If thou say so ,  villain ,  Thou kill’st thy mistress . 	If you say that ,  you bastard ,  you’ll kill your Queen . 
but well and free ,  If thou so yield him ,  there is gold ,  and here My bluest veins to kiss—a hand that kings Have lipped ,  and trembled kissing . 	kings have trembled to kiss this hand . 
first ,  madam ,  he is well . 	let me say first ,  madam ,  that he is well . 
why ,  there’s more gold . 	well then ,  here’s more money for you . 
but ,  sirrah ,  mark ,  we use To say the dead are well . 	but you know ,  sirrah ,  we customarily say that the dead are well . 
bring it to that ,  The gold I give thee will I melt and pour Down thy ill - uttering throat . 	If that’s what you mean ,  I’ll melt this gold and pour it down your throat that speaks these hateful words . 
good madam ,  hear me . 	good madam ,  let me speak . 
well ,  go to ,  I will . 	all right ,  I will . 
but there’s no goodness in thy face—if Antony Be free and healthful ,  so tart a favor To trumpet such good tidings ! 	but you don’t look as if you bring good news . 
If that you were the good Sir Rowland’s son ,  As you have whispered faithfully you were ,  And as mine eye doth his effigies witness Most truly limned and living in your face ,  Be truly welcome hither . 	If you really are Sir Rowland’s son ,  as you’ve just whispered to me—and I can absolutely see the likeness in your face— you are truly welcome here . 
I am the duke That loved your father . 	I am the duke who loved your father . 
the residue of your fortune Go to my cave and tell me . —Good old man ,  Thou art right welcome as thy master is . 	come to my cave and tell me the rest of your story . —Good old man ,  you are as welcome here as your master is . 
support him by the arm . 	give him your arm . 
give me your hand ,  And let me all your fortunes understand . 	give me your hand ,  and explain your situation to me . 
not see him since ? 	you haven’t seen him since ? 
sir ,  sir ,  that cannot be . 	sir ,  sir ,  that can’t be true . 
but were I not the better part made mercy ,  I should not seek an absent argument Of my revenge ,  thou present . 	If I weren’t a merciful man ,  I’d forget about your missing brother and punish you in his place . 
but look to it: Find out thy brother ,  wheresoe'er he is . 	but do this: find your brother ,  wherever he is . 
bring him ,  dead or living ,  Within this twelvemonth or turn thou no more To seek a living in our territory . 	bring him here dead or alive within the next year ,  or get out off my land . 
thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine Worth seizure ,  do we seize into our hands Till thou canst quit thee by thy brother’s mouth Of what we think against thee . 	I’m seizing your lands and all that you possess until your brother gives testimony that absolves you of any guilt . 
oh ,  that your Highness knew my heart in this: I never loved my brother in my life . 	I wish your Highness knew my true feelings in this matter: I have never in my life loved my brother . 
more villain thou . —Well ,  push him out of doors And let my officers of such a nature Make an extent upon his house and lands . 	that makes you an even bigger villain . —Well ,  throw him out ,  and have my officers seize his house and lands . 
do this expediently ,  and turn him going . 	do this immediately ,  and send him packing . 
hang there ,  my verse ,  in witness of my love . 	hang there on this tree ,  you lines of poetry ,  and bear witness to my love . 
and how like you this shepherd’s life ,  Master Touchstone ? 	and you ,   And how are you liking the shepherd’s life ,  Master Touchstone ? 
truly ,  shepherd ,  in respect of itself ,  it is a good life; but in respect that it is a shepherd’s life ,  it is naught . 	well ,  in and of itself ,  it is a good life ,  but given that it’s a shepherd’s life ,  it’s worthless . 
In respect that it is solitary ,  I like it very well; but in respect that it is private ,  it is a very vile life . 	In the fact that it’s solitary ,  I enjoy it very much; but in the sense that it’s private ,  it’s terrible . 
now in respect it is in the fields ,  it pleaseth me well; but in respect it is not in the court ,  it is tedious . 	now ,  I’m very pleased with it being outdoors ,  but in its not being at the court ,  it is boring . 
hast any philosophy in thee ,  shepherd ? 	are you any kind of philosopher yourself ,  shepherd ? 
such a one is a natural philosopher . 	you’re a natural - born philosopher ! 
wast ever in court ,  shepherd ? 	were you ever at court ,  shepherd ? 
no ,  truly . 	honestly ,  no . 
then thou art damned . 	then you are damned . 
nay ,  I hope . 	I hope not . 
your reason . 	explain . 
why ,  if thou never wast at court ,  thou never saw’st good manners; if thou never saw’st good manners ,  then thy manners must be wicked ,  and wickedness is sin ,  and sin is damnation . 	well ,  if you were never at court ,  you were never exposed to good manners; if you never witnessed good manners ,  your manners must be wicked; wickedness is a sin ,  and committing sins leads to damnation . 
thou art in a parlous state ,  shepherd . 	you are in a perilous state ,  shepherd . 
not a whit ,  Touchstone . 	not at all ,  Touchstone . 
those that are good manners at the court are as ridiculous in the country as the behavior of the country is most mockable at the court . 	the good manners of the court look as silly in the country as country behavior is laughable at the court . 
you told me you salute not at the court but you kiss your hands . 	you told me that you don’t salute at the court but kiss hands . 
that courtesy would be uncleanly if courtiers were shepherds . 	now ,  if courtiers were shepherds ,  that kind of courtesy would be unclean . 
Instance ,  briefly . 	give a quick example . 
come ,  instance . 	come ,  explain . 
why ,  we are still handling our ewes ,  and their fells ,  you know ,  are greasy . 	why ,  because we’re always handling our ewes ,  and their fleece ,  as you know ,  is greasy . 
why ,  do not your courtier’s hands sweat ? 	what ,  don’t courtiers' hands sweat ? 
and is not the grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of a man ? 	and isn’t a sheep’s grease as wholesome as a man’s sweat ? 
a better instance ,  I say . 	that’s a poor example . 
come . 	a better example—come on . 
besides ,  our hands are hard . 	besides ,  our hands are hard and calloused . 
your lips will feel them the sooner . 	then your lips will feel them more quickly . 
come . 	come on . 
most shallow man . 	you worthless man ! 
thou worms' meat in respect of a good piece of flesh ,  indeed . 	you are about as much of a thinker as worm’s meat is a nice steak . 
learn of the wise and perpend: civet is of a baser birth than tar ,  the very uncleanly flux of a cat . 	learn from the wise ,  and comprehend: the courtier’s perfume is made from cat discharge—much more disgusting than tar . 
mend the instance ,  shepherd . 	fix your example ,  shepherd . 
you have too courtly a wit for me . 	your wit is too courtly for me . 
I’ll rest . 	I’ll rest now . 
good morrow to your Worship . 	good morning ,  sir . 
can you tell if Rosalind ,  the duke’s daughter ,  be banished with her father ? 	can you tell me whether Rosalind ,  Duke Senior’s daughter ,  has also been banished ? 
where will the old duke live ? 	where will the old duke live ? 
wilt thou rest damned ? 	you’re going to rest while you’re still damned ? 
god help thee ,  shallow man . 	god help you ,  foolish man . 
god make incision in thee; thou art raw . 	pray God does some surgery on you: you need to be fixed . 
that is another simple sin in you ,  to bring the ewes and the rams together and to offer to get your living by the copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a bellwether and to betray a she - lamb of a twelvemonth to a crooked - pated old cuckoldly ram ,  out of all reasonable match . 	that’s another sin arising from your ignorance: you bring ewes and rams together and make your living by their copulation . 
here comes young Master Ganymede ,  my new mistress’s brother . 	here comes young Mr .  Ganymede ,  my new mistress’s brother . 
no jewel is like Rosalind . 	there is no jewel like Rosalind . 
her worth being mounted on the wind ,  Through all the world bears Rosalind . 	her worth is carried on the wind And it blows throughout the world ,  carrying the name of Rosalind . 
all the pictures fairest lined Are but black to Rosalind . 	all the most beautiful paintings Are black when compared to Rosalind . 
let no fair be kept in mind But the fair of Rosalind . 	don’t think of any beauty But the beauty of Rosalind . 
I’ll rhyme you so eight years together ,  dinners and suppers and sleeping hours excepted . 	I could rhyme like that for eight years in a row ,  excepting meal times and sleeping hours . 
It is the right butter - women’s rank to market . 	that awful ,  plodding rhyme sounded like a row of dairy women stomping off to market . 
out ,  fool . 	oh ,  stop ,  fool . 
for a taste: If a hart do lack a hind ,  Let him seek out Rosalind . 	let me try: If there’s a buck who needs a doe Tell him Rosalind will do . 
If the cat will after kind ,  So ,  be sure ,  will Rosalind . 	a cat in heat will look for a mate ,  And Rosalind certainly will too . 
winter garments must be lined ,  So must slender Rosalind . 	winter garments need to be filled with something ,  And so does skinny Rosalind . 
they that reap must sheaf and bind ,  Then to cart with Rosalind . 	after you harvest ,  you have to sheaf and bind So throw ripe Rosalind on the harvest cart . 
sweetest nut hath sourest rind; Such a nut is Rosalind . 	the sweetest nut has the sourest rind And Rosalind is that kind of nut . 
he that sweetest rose will find Must find love’s prick ,  and Rosalind . 	the man who finds the sweetest rose Will be pricked by it ,  and by Rosalind . 
this is the very false gallop of verses . 	this is exactly the false way that verses gallop along . 
why do you infect yourself with them ? 	why bother with them ? 
peace ,  you dull fool . 	quiet ,  you stupid fool . 
I found them on a tree . 	I found them on a tree . 
truly ,  the tree yields bad fruit . 	well ,  the tree bears rotten fruit . 
you have said ,  but whether wisely or no ,  let the forest judge . 	all right ,  you’ve had your say ,  but we’ll let the forest judge whether or not you spoke wisely . 
peace . 	quiet ! 
but upon the fairest boughs ,  Or at every sentence end ,  Will I  “ Rosalinda ”  write ,  Teaching all that read to know The quintessence of every sprite Heaven would in little show . 	but on the prettiest branches Or at the end of every sentence  I’ll write  “ Rosalinda ,  ”  Teaching everyone who can read that the essence of every spirit Is contained in this one woman . 
therefore heaven nature charged That one body should be filled With all graces wide - enlarged . 	heaven commanded Nature To fill her one body With all the graces that women contain . 
nature presently distilled Helen’s cheek ,  but not her heart ,  Cleopatra’s majesty ,  Atalanta’s better part ,  Sad Lucretia’s modesty . 	nature took Helen’s  Cleopatra’s majesty ,  The best of Atalanta ,  And unhappy Lucretia’s modesty . 
thus Rosalind of many parts By heavenly synod was devised ,  Of many faces ,  eyes ,  and hearts To have the touches dearest prized . 	so ,  by heaven’s decree ,  Rosalind Was composed Of different faces ,  eyes ,  and hearts ,  so that she might have the most prized touches of all . 
heaven would that she these gifts should have And I to live and die her slave . 	heaven wanted Rosalind to have these gifts And me to live and die as her slave . 
didst thou hear these verses ? 	were you listening to these verses ? 
oh ,  yes ,  I heard them all ,  and more too ,  for some of them had in them more feet than the verses would bear . 	oh yes ,  I heard them all ,  and more ,  too . 
ay ,  but the feet were lame and could not bear themselves without the verse ,  and therefore stood lamely in the verse . 	some of those lines had more feet than the  That’s not a problem: the feet can bear Sure ,  but these feet were
but didst thou hear without wondering how thy name should be hanged and carved upon these trees ? 	but did you listen to all that poetry without even wondering about what your name is doing on all these trees ? 
Is it a man ? 	was it a man ? 
and a chain ,  that you once wore ,  about his neck . 	and he had a chain that once belonged to you hanging around his neck . 
change you color ? 	are you blushing ? 
I prithee ,  who ? 	please ,  who ? 
o Lord ,  Lord ,  it is a hard matter for friends to meet ,  but mountains may be removed with earthquakes and so encounter . 	It’s difficult to bring two friends together ,  but even mountains can be moved together by earthquakes . 
nay ,  but who is it ? 	no ,  who are you talking about ? 
Is it possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
nay ,  I prithee now ,  with most petitionary vehemence ,  tell me who it is . 	no ,  I’m begging you now ,  tell me who it is . 
o wonderful ,  wonderful ,  and most wonderful wonderful ,  and yet again wonderful ,  and after that ,  out of all whooping ! 	oh ,  this is wonderful ,  wonderful—just wonderful wonderful ! 
good my complexion ,  dost thou think though I am caparisoned like a man ,  I have a doublet and hose in my disposition ? 	good grief ,  do you think that just because I’m dressed like a man ,  I have a man’s patience ? 
one inch of delay more is a South Sea of discovery . 	every second you delay is as long and dull as a journey to South Seas . 
I prithee ,  tell me who is it quickly ,  and speak apace . 	I’m begging you ,  tell me who it is quickly ,  and speak fast . 
I would thou couldst stammer ,  that thou might’st pour this concealed man out of thy mouth as wine comes out of a narrow - mouthed bottle—either too much at once ,  or none at all . 	I wish you could just stammer this hidden man out of your mouth like wine out of a narrow - necked bottle: either too much at once or none at all . 
I prithee take the cork out of thy mouth ,  that I may drink thy tidings . 	I’m begging you ,  take the cork out of your mouth so I can drink the news . 
so you may put a man in your belly . 	so you want to put a man in your belly . 
Is he of God’s making ? 	did God make him ? 
what manner of man ? 	I mean ,  what sort of man is he ? 
Is his head worth a hat or his chin worth a beard ? 	Is he enough of a man to wear a hat and grow a beard  ? 
nay ,  he hath but a little beard . 	no ,  he has only a little beard . 
why ,  God will send more ,  if the man will be thankful . 	well ,  eventually God will send him some more hair ,  if he thanks Him . 
let me stay the growth of his beard ,  if thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin . 	I’ll wait till his beard grows in ,  if you’ll just hurry up and tell me what chin that beard is on . 
It is young Orlando ,  that tripped up the wrestler’s heels and your heart both in an instant . 	It’s Orlando ,  who triumphed over both the wrestler and you in the same instant . 
nay ,  but the devil take mocking . 	damn you for mocking me . 
I' faith ,  coz ,  ’tis he . 	really ,  cousin ,  it’s him . 
orlando ? 	orlando ? 
orlando . 	orlando . 
what did he when thou saw’st him ? 	what did he do when you saw him ? 
what said he ? 	what did he say ? 
how looked he ? 	how did he look ? 
wherein went he ? 	where did he go ? 
what makes him here ? 	what brings him here ? 
did he ask for me ? 	did he ask about me ? 
where remains he ? 	where is he staying ? 
how parted he with thee ? 	how did he say good - bye ? 
and when shalt thou see him again ? 	and when will you see him again ? 
answer me in one word . 	answer me in a word . 
but doth he know that I am in this forest and in man’s apparel ? 	you’d better get me  But does he know that I’m here in the forest and dressed in men’s clothing ? 
looks he as freshly as he did the day he wrestled ? 	does he look as bright and handsome as the day we saw him wrestling ? 
but take a taste of my finding him ,  and relish it with good observance . 	but taste my story ,  and relish it by paying attention . 
I found him under a tree like a dropped acorn . 	I found Orlando under a tree ,  like a dropped acorn . 
It may well be called Jove’s tree when it drops forth such fruit . 	that tree could be called God’s tree ,  since it drops such wonderful fruit . 
give me audience ,  good madam . 	let me talk ,  good lady . 
proceed . 	go on . 
there lay he ,  stretched along like a wounded knight . 	he lay there ,  stretched out like a wounded knight . 
though it be pity to see such a sight ,  it well becomes the ground . 	though that must have been a pitiful sight ,  the ground looked beautiful . 
cry  “ holla ”  to thy tongue ,  I prithee . 	cry ,   “ whoa !  ”  to your tongue ,  please . 
It curvets unseasonably . 	It’s leaping about like a frisky horse . 
he was furnished like a hunter . 	he was dressed like a hunter . 
oh ,  ominous ! 	oh ,  that’s ominous ! 
he comes to kill my heart . 	he has come to kill my heart . 
I would sing my song without a burden . 	I’d like to sing my song solo . 
thou bring’st me out of tune . 	you’re making me go off - key . 
do you not know I am a woman ? 	don’t you know that I’m a woman ? 
when I think ,  I must speak . 	whatever I think ,  I have to say . 
sweet ,  say on . 	sweetheart ,  go on . 
you bring me out . 	quiet ! 
soft ,  comes he not here ? 	Isn’t that him heading this way ? 
tis he . 	that’s him . 
I thank you for your company ,  but ,  good faith ,  I had as lief have been myself alone . 	thanks for your company but ,  really ,  I would have preferred being alone . 
and so had I ,  but yet ,  for fashion sake ,  I thank you too for your society . 	me too ,  but still ,  for the sake of good manners ,  I’ll say thanks for your company . 
god be wi' you . 	goodbye . 
let’s meet as little as we can . 	let’s meet as little as we can . 
I do desire we may be better strangers . 	I also hope that we can be better strangers . 
I pray you mar no more trees with writing love songs in their barks . 	please don’t ruin any more trees by carving love poems on their barks . 
I pray you mar no more of my verses with reading them ill -  favoredly . 	please don’t ruin any more of my poems by reading them so badly . 
rosalind is your love’s name ? 	your love’s name is Rosalind ? 
yes ,  just . 	yes ,  that’s it . 
I do not like her name . 	I don’t like her name . 
what stature is she of ? 	how tall is she ? 
just as high as my heart . 	just as tall as my heart . 
you are full of pretty answers . 	you’re sure full of smooth answers . 
the worst fault you have is to be in love . 	your worst fault is being in love . 
tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue . 	well ,  it’s a fault I wouldn’t trade for your best virtue . 
I am weary of you . 	I’m tired of you . 
there I shall see mine own figure . 	there I’ll see only myself . 
which I take to be either a fool or a cipher . 	which is either a fool or a nothing . 
I’ll tarry no longer with you . 	I’m not going to waste any more time with you . 
farewell ,  good Signior Love . 	goodbye ,  good Mr .  Love . 
I am glad of your departure . 	I’m glad to see you go . 
adieu ,  good Monsieur Melancholy . 	adieu ,  good Mr .  Depression . 
very well . 	very well . 
what would you ? 	what do you want ? 
you should ask me what time o' day . 	you should ask me what time of day it is ,  instead . 
there’s no clock in the forest . 	there’s no clock here in the forest . 
then there is no true lover in the forest ,  else sighing every minute and groaning every hour would detect the lazy foot of time as well as a clock . 	then there must be no lovers in the forest ,  either ,  because they’re as good as a clock ,  marking the lazy foot of time with a sigh every minute and a groan every hour . 
marry ,  do I ,  sir ,  and I came to acquaint you with a matter . 	Indeed I do ,  sir ,  and I’ve come to let you in on a certain problem . 
I am given ,  sir ,  secretly to understand that your younger brother Orlando hath a disposition to come in disguised against me to try a fall . 	I’ve been informed by certain sources I can’t disclose that your younger brother Orlando plans to fight me in disguise . 
tomorrow ,  sir ,  I wrestle for my credit ,  and he that escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him well . 	tomorrow ,  sir ,  I’m fighting for my reputation ,  and any man who gets away without a broken bone or two is an exceptional wrestler indeed . 
your brother is but young and tender ,  and ,  for your love I would be loath to foil him ,  as I must for my own honor if he come in . 	your brother is young and inexperienced ,  and because of my affection for you ,  I’d hate to crush him—though I’d have to ,  if he challenged me . 
therefore ,  out of my love to you ,  I came hither to acquaint you withal ,  that either you might stay him from his intendment or brook such disgrace well as he shall run into ,  in that it is a thing of his own search and altogether against my will . 	I’m telling you all this out of affection for you ,  so you can either keep him from carrying out his plans or prepare to accept his disgrace ,  which will be his own fault ,  not mine . 
charles ,  I thank thee for thy love to me ,  which thou shalt find I will most kindly requite . 	charles ,  I thank you for your loyalty to me ,  and you’ll see that I’ll reward you . 
I had myself notice of my brother’s purpose herein and have by underhand means labored to dissuade him from it; but he is resolute . 	I’d heard about my brother’s plan and have been subtly trying to change his mind ,  but he’s determined . 
I’ll tell thee ,  Charles: it is the stubbornest young fellow of France ,  full of ambition ,  an envious emulator of every man’s good parts ,  a secret and villainous contriver against me his natural brother . 	I tell you ,  Charles ,  he’s the stubbornest young fellow in France: overly ambitious ,  jealous of other people’s good qualities ,  and a traitor against me ,  his own blood brother . 
therefore use thy discretion . 	so use your discretion . 
I had as lief thou didst break his neck as his finger . 	I’d be just as happy if you broke his neck as his finger . 
I speak but brotherly of him ,  but should I anatomize him to thee as he is ,  I must blush and weep ,  and thou must look pale and wonder . 	but if I really laid him bare ,  I’d have to weep and hang my head ,  and you would not believe me ,  his behavior is so shocking . 
and why not the swift foot of time ? 	why didn’t you say  “ the swift steps ”  of time instead of the  “ lazy foot ”  ? 
had not that been as proper ? 	wouldn’t that have been just as appropriate ? 
by no means ,  sir . 	no ,  not at all ,  sir . 
time travels in diverse paces with diverse persons . 	time travels at different speeds for different people . 
I’ll tell you who time ambles withal ,  who time trots withal ,  who time gallops withal ,  and who he stands still withal . 	I can tell you who time strolls for ,  who it trots for ,  who it gallops for ,  and who it stops cold for . 
I prithee ,  who doth he trot withal ? 	okay ,  who does it trot for ? 
who ambles time withal ? 	who does time amble for ? 
these time ambles withal . 	time ambles for both men . 
who doth he gallop withal ? 	who does it gallop for ? 
who stays it still withal ? 	who does it stand still for ? 
with lawyers in the vacation ,  for they sleep between term and term ,  and then they perceive not how time moves . 	for lawyers on vacation ,  because they sleep their holidays away ,  with no sense of how time moves . 
where dwell you ,  pretty youth ? 	where do you live ,  pretty young man ? 
are you native of this place ? 	were you born here ? 
as the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled . 	just like the rabbit ,  who lives where she is born . 
your accent is something finer than you could purchase in so removed a dwelling . 	your speech is more refined than I would expect in such a remote place as this . 
I have been told so of many . 	many people have told me so . 
but indeed an old religious uncle of mine taught me to speak ,  who was in his youth an inland man ,  one that knew courtship too well ,  for there he fell in love . 	actually ,  an old religious uncle of mine taught me how to speak ,  and he was brought up in the city . 
I have heard him read many lectures against it ,  and I thank God I am not a woman ,  to be touched with so many giddy offenses as he hath generally taxed their whole sex withal . 	thank God I’m not a woman and afflicted with all the giddiness that troubles that entire sex . 
can you remember any of the principal evils that he laid to the charge of women ? 	what were the primary evils he claimed women were guilty of ? 
there were none principal . 	there were no primary ones . 
I prithee ,  recount some of them . 	please ,  tell me some of them . 
no ,  I will not cast away my physic but on those that are sick . 	no ,  I won’t give my medicine away to anyone but the sick . 
there is a man haunts the forest that abuses our young plants with carving  “ Rosalind ”  on their barks ,  hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies on brambles ,  all ,  forsooth ,  deifying the name of Rosalind . 	there’s a man haunting this forest who abuses the trees by carving  “ Rosalind ”  on their barks . 
I am he that is so love - shaked . 	well ,  I’m the man you’re speaking of . 
I pray you tell me your remedy . 	please ,  tell me your cure . 
there is none of my uncle’s marks upon you . 	but you don’t have any of the symptoms my uncle told me about . 
he taught me how to know a man in love ,  in which cage of rushes I am sure you are not prisoner . 	he taught me how to recognize a man in love ,  and you’re not a prisoner of love ,  I’m sure . 
what were his marks ? 	what did he say the symptoms were ? 
a lean cheek ,  which you have not; a blue eye and sunken ,  which you have not; an unquestionable spirit ,  which you have not; a beard neglected ,  which you have not—but I pardon you for that ,  for simply your having in beard is a younger brother’s revenue . 	a thin face ,  which you don’t have; a sleepless ,  sunken eye ,  which you don’t have; an irritable temper ,  which you don’t have; a neglected beard ,  which you don’t have—but that might not be so telling ,  since you don’t have much beard anyway . 
then your hose should be ungartered ,  your bonnet unbanded ,  your sleeve unbuttoned ,  your shoe untied ,  and everything about you demonstrating a careless desolation . 	your stockings should be falling down around your ankles ,  your hat flying off your head ,  your sleeves unbuttoned ,  your shoes untied ,  and everything about you demonstrating carelessness and misery . 
but you are no such man . 	but you’re no such man . 
you are rather point - device in your accouterments ,  as loving yourself than seeming the lover of any other . 	you’re so neat and well put - together that you look like you love yourself more than anyone else . 
fair youth ,  I would I could make thee believe I love . 	young boy ,  I wish I could make you believe that I’m in love . 
me believe it ? 	make me believe it ? 
but ,  in good sooth ,  are you he that hangs the verses on the trees wherein Rosalind is so admired ? 	but really ,  are you the one who’s been hanging on the trees those poems that speak so admiringly of Rosalind ? 
I swear to thee ,  youth ,  by the white hand of Rosalind ,  I am that he ,  that unfortunate he . 	I swear to you by Rosalind’s own pretty hand that I am that unfortunate man . 
but are you so much in love as your rhymes speak ? 	are you really as in love as your poems declare ? 
neither rhyme nor reason can express how much . 	neither rhyme nor reason can express how much I love her . 
love is merely a madness and ,  I tell you ,  deserves as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do ,  and the reason why they are not so punished and cured is that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers are in love ,  too . 	the only reason they don’t get punished and cured is that the disease is so commonplace that the nuthouse nurses are usually suffering from it ,  too . 
yet I profess curing it by counsel . 	but I promise it can be cured with some guidance . 
did you ever cure any so ? 	have you ever cured anyone this way before ? 
yes ,  one ,  and in this manner . 	yes ,  one ,  and this is how I did it . 
I would not be cured ,  youth . 	I don’t want to be cured ,  boy . 
I would cure you if you would but call me Rosalind and come every day to my cote and woo me . 	I could cure you ,  if you just called me Rosalind and came by my cottage every day to woo me . 
now ,  by the faith of my love ,  I will . 	by my faith in love ,  I will ,  then . 
tell me where it is . 	tell me where you live . 
go with me to it ,  and I’ll show it you; and by the way you shall tell me where in the forest you live . 	come with me ,  I’ll show you ,  and along the way ,  you can tell me where you live . 
will you go ? 	will you come ? 
with all my heart ,  good youth . 	wholeheartedly ,  good young man . 
nay ,  you must call me Rosalind . —Come ,  sister ,  will you go ? 	no ,  you have to call me Rosalind . —Sister ,  you’re coming ? 
come apace ,  good Audrey . 	come on ,  sweet Audrey . 
I will fetch up your goats ,  Audrey . 	I’ll get your goats ,  Audrey . 
doth my simple feature content you ? 	do my simple features please you ? 
your features ,  Lord warrant us ! 	your features ,  God help us ! 
what features ? 	what features ? 
truly ,  I would the gods had made thee poetical . 	really ,  Audrey ,  I wish you were more poetical . 
I do not know what  “ poetical ”  is . 	I don’t know what  “ poetical ”  means . 
Is it honest in deed and word ? 	Is it  “ chaste in word and action ”  ? 
Is it a true thing ? 	does it mean being truthful ? 
no ,  truly ,  for the truest poetry is the most feigning ,  and lovers are given to poetry ,  and what they swear in poetry may be said as lovers they do feign . 	not really ,  for the truest poetry is often the most artificial . 
do you wish then that the gods had made me poetical ? 	but you still wish the gods had made me poetical ? 
I do ,  truly ,  for thou swear’st to me thou art honest . 	I do ,  in fact . 
now ,  if thou wert a poet ,  I might have some hope thou didst feign . 	right now you swear to me that you are a virgin; if you were a poet ,  I might have some hope you were lying . 
would you not have me honest ? 	what ,  you don’t want me to be chaste ? 
no ,  truly ,  unless thou wert hard - favored ,  for honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar . 	not really ,  unless you were ugly . 
well ,  I am not fair ,  and therefore I pray the gods make me honest . 	well ,  I’m not beautiful ,  so I hope that I can at least be chaste . 
I am not a slut ,  though I thank the gods I am foul . 	I’m not a slut—I keep myself clean—but I thank God I am ugly . 
well ,  praised be the gods for thy foulness; sluttishness may come hereafter . 	well ,  praise the Lord you’re ugly . 
but what though ? 	well ,  God bless this marriage ! 
courage . 	amen . 
well ,  that is the dowry of his wife; ’tis none of his own getting . 	well ,  that’s what the wife brings to the marriage . 
horns ? 	horns ? 
even so . 	well ,  there they are . 
poor men alone ? 	only for poor men ? 
no ,  no . 	no ,  no . 
the noblest deer hath them as huge as the rascal . 	the nobleman’s are as huge as the underfed villager’s . 
Is the single man therefore blessed ? 	Is the single man lucky ,  then ? 
no . 	no . 
as a walled town is more worthier than a village ,  so is the forehead of a married man more honorable than the bare brow of a bachelor . 	just as a town protected by a wall around it is worth more than a low - lying village ,  a married man’s horned forehead is more honorable than a bachelor’s bare forehead . 
here comes Sir Oliver . —Sir Oliver Martext ,  you are well met . 	here comes Sir Oliver . 
will you dispatch us here under this tree ,  or shall we go with you to your chapel ? 	will you marry us here ,  under this tree ,  or should we follow you to your chapel ? 
Is there none here to give the woman ? 	Is there anyone to give the bride away ? 
I will not take her on gift of any man . 	I don’t want to take another man’s second - hand goods . 
truly ,  she must be given ,  or the marriage is not lawful . 	no ,  someone has to give her away or the marriage isn’t legal . 
how do you ,  sir ? 	how are you ,  sir ? 
you are very well met . 	we’re glad to see you . 
god 'ild you for your last company . 	god bless you for being here . 
I am very glad to see you . 	I’m very glad to see you . 
even a toy in hand here ,  sir . 	this is just a trifling matter here ,  sir . 
nay ,  pray be covered . 	no ,  no ,  put your hat back on . 
will you be married ,  motley ? 	do you want to get married ,  fool ? 
as the ox hath his bow ,  sir ,  the horse his curb ,  and the falcon her bells ,  so man hath his desires; and as pigeons bill ,  so wedlock would be nibbling . 	just as the ox has his yoke ,  the horse its bridle ,  the falcon a tether ,  a man has his desires—to keep in check . 
and will you ,  being a man of your breeding ,  be married under a bush like a beggar ? 	and ,  being a man of your breeding ,  you’re going to be married under some shrubs like a beggar ? 
get you to church ,  and have a good priest that can tell you what marriage is . 	get yourself to a church and have a proper priest ,  who can tell you what marriage is all about ,  marry you . 
then one of you will prove a shrunk panel and ,  like green timber ,  warp ,  warp . 	then one of you will warp and pull away—and there goes your marriage . 
go thou with me ,  and let me counsel thee . 	come with me and let me advise you . 
come ,  sweet Audrey . 	come ,  sweet Audrey . 
we must be married ,  or we must live in bawdry . —Farewell ,  good Master Oliver ,  not               'Tis no matter . 	we have to be married properly . 
ne'er a fantastical knave of them all shall flout me out of my calling . 	none of these deranged rascals can shake me from my profession . 
never talk to me . 	don’t talk to me . 
I will weep . 	I’m going to cry . 
do ,  I prithee ,  but yet have the grace to consider that tears do not become a man . 	go ahead if you want ,  but remember that crying doesn’t suit a man . 
but have I not cause to weep ? 	but don’t I have good reason to cry ? 
as good cause as one would desire . 	as good a reason as any . 
therefore weep . 	so go ahead and cry . 
and his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch of holy bread . 	his kiss is as holy as bread blessed by a priest . 
I am heartily glad I came hither to you . 	I’m very glad I came to see you . 
If he come tomorrow ,  I’ll give him his payment . 	If he shows up tomorrow ,  I’ll give him what’s coming to him . 
If ever he go alone again ,  I’ll never wrestle for prize more . 	If he can manage to walk after our fight ,  I’ll never wrestle for money again . 
farewell ,  good Charles . 	farewell ,  my lord . 
but it shall not be so long; this wrestler shall clear all . 	but not for long; Charles will take care of everything . 
you have heard him swear downright he was . 	but you heard him swear up and down that he was . 
he attends here in the forest on the duke your father . 	he’s staying in the forest with your father now . 
I met the duke yesterday and had much question with him . 	I met my father in the woods yesterday and had a long conversation with him . 
so he laughed and let me go . 	he laughed at that and let me go . 
but what talk we of fathers when there is such a man as Orlando ? 	he writes brave poems ,  speaks brave words ,  makes brave promises ,  and then breaks them just as bravely . 
oh ,  that’s a brave man . 	he’s like a cowardly
who comes here ? 	who’s coming here ? 
mistress and master ,  you have oft inquired After the shepherd that complained of love ,  Who you saw sitting by me on the turf ,  Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess That was his mistress . 	mistress and master ,  you’ve often asked about that lovelorn shepherd you once saw me sitting with ,  the one who complained about the disdainful shepherdess he was in love with . 
the sight of lovers feedeth those in love . 	yes ,  what about him ? 
sweet Phoebe ,  do not scorn me . 	sweet Phoebe ,  do not scorn me . 
do not ,  Phoebe . 	do not ,  Phoebe . 
say that you love me not ,  but say not so In bitterness . 	go ahead and say you don’t love me ,  but not so bitterly . 
now counterfeit to swoon ,  why ,  now fall down; Or if thou canst not ,  Oh ,  for shame ,  for shame ,  Lie not ,  to say mine eyes are murderers . 	faint ,  fall down—if you don’t ,  then you’re lying about my eyes being murderers . 
now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee . 	come on ,  show me the wound that my eyes have caused . 
but now mine eyes ,  Which I have darted at thee ,  hurt thee not . 	but my eyes ,  which I’ve darted at you ,  haven’t even left a mark . 
nor ,  I am sure ,  there is no force in eyes That can do hurt . 	now I am sure that eyes can’t hurt a person . 
o dear Phoebe ,  If ever—as that ever may be near— You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy ,  Then shall you know the wounds invisible That love’s keen arrows make . 	oh ,  darling Phoebe ,  if you ever fall in love with some fresh face ,  then you’ll know about the invisible wounds that love’s sharp arrows can make . 
but till that time Come not thou near me . 	well ,  until that time ,  don’t come near me . 
and when that time comes ,  Afflict me with thy mocks ,  pity me not ,  As till that time I shall not pity thee . 	and when that time comes ,  then you can mock me ,  but please don’t pity me ,  because I won’t pity you . 
but ,  mistress ,  know yourself . 	but mistress ,  know yourself . 
down on your knees And thank heaven ,  fasting ,  for a good man’s love ,  For I must tell you friendly in your ear ,  Sell when you can; you are not for all markets . 	get down on your knees and thank heaven for sending you such a good man . 
cry the man mercy ,  love him ,  take his offer . 	ask this man’s forgiveness ,  love him ,  and accept his offer . 
so take her to thee ,  shepherd . 	so take her ,  shepherd ,  and God bless you . 
besides ,  I like you not . 	besides ,  I don’t like you . 
will you go ,  sister ? —Shepherd ,  ply her hard . 	come on ,  sister . 
come ,  sister . —Shepherdess ,  look on him better ,  And be not proud . 	and don’t be proud . 
though all the world could see ,  None could be so abused in sight as he . 	the whole world could look at you ,  and no one would be as blind as he is ,  thinking you’re beautiful . 
sweet Phoebe ,  pity me . 	sweet Phoebe ,  have pity on me . 
why ,  I am sorry for thee ,  gentle Silvius . 	well ,  I’m sorry for you ,  gentle Silvius . 
If you do sorrow at my grief in love ,  By giving love your sorrow and my grief Were both extermined . 	then both my grief and your sorrow will be cured . 
thou hast my love . 	you have my friendship . 
Is not that neighborly ? 	Isn’t that enough ? 
I would have you . 	I want you . 
why ,  that were covetousness . 	well ,  that’s just greedy . 
but do not look for further recompense Than thine own gladness that thou art employed . 	but don’t expect any more than that . 
know’st thou the youth that spoke to me erewhile ? 	do you know the boy who was just speaking to me ? 
not very well ,  but I have met him oft ,  And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds That the old carlot once was master of . 	not very well ,  but I’ve met him several times . 
think not I love him ,  though I ask for him . 	don’t think I’m in love with him just because I’m asking about him . 
tis but a peevish boy—yet he talks well— But what care I for words ? 	but what do I care about words ? 
yet words do well When he that speaks them pleases those that hear . 	and yet ,  words are a good thing when the man speaking them is pleasant to listen to . 
It is a pretty youth—not very pretty— But sure he’s proud—and yet his pride becomes him . 	he’s awfully proud ,  but his pride suits him . 
he’ll make a proper man . 	he’ll grow up to be a proper man . 
he is not very tall—yet for his years he’s tall . 	he’s not very tall ,  but he’s tall enough for his age . 
his leg is but so - so—and yet ’tis well . 	his legs aren’t great ,  but they’re alright . 
there was a pretty redness in his lip ,  A little riper and more lusty red Than that mixed in his cheek: ’twas just the difference Betwixt the constant red and mingled damask . 	his lips were nice and red ,  a little more lively and passionate than the red that was in his cheeks—one was pure red and the other more pink . 
for what had he to do to chide at me ? 	what right did he have to scold me like that ? 
he said mine eyes were black and my hair black And ,  now I am remembered ,  scorned at me . 	he said my eyes and my hair were black and ,  now that I think of it ,  he scorned me . 
I marvel why I answered not again . 	I’m surprised I didn’t bite back . 
but that’s all one: omittance is no quittance . 	but no matter—I’ll get back at him soon enough . 
I’ll write to him a very taunting letter ,  And thou shalt bear it . 	I’ll write him a taunting letter ,  and you can deliver it . 
wilt thou ,  Silvius ? 	will you do that for me ,  Silvius ? 
phoebe ,  with all my heart . 	with all my heart ,  Phoebe . 
I will be bitter with him and passing short . 	I’ll be bitter toward him ,  and curt . 
go with me ,  Silvius . 	come with me ,  Silvius . 
I prithee ,  pretty youth ,  let me be better acquainted with thee . 	please ,  pretty young man ,  I’d like to get to know you better . 
they say you are a melancholy fellow . 	they say you are a melancholy fellow . 
I am so . 	I am . 
I do love it better than laughing . 	I like it better than laughing . 
those that are in extremity of either are abominable fellows and betray themselves to every modern censure worse than drunkards . 	people who are either too serious or too silly are awful . 
why ,  ’tis good to be sad and say nothing . 	well ,  I think it’s good to be serious and keep quiet . 
why then ,  ’tis good to be a post . 	In that case it’s good to be a post . 
I have neither the scholar’s melancholy ,  which is emulation; nor the musician’s ,  which is fantastical; nor the courtier’s ,  which is proud; nor the soldier’s ,  which is ambitious; nor the lawyer’s ,  which is politic; nor the lady’s ,  which is nice; nor the lover’s ,  which is all these ,  but it is a melancholy of mine own ,  compounded of many simples ,  extracted from many objects ,  and indeed the sundry contemplation of my travels ,  in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous sadness . 	I don’t have the proud melancholy of a courtier or the ambitious melancholy of a soldier or the calculated melancholy of a lawyer . 
a traveler . 	you’re a traveler . 
by my faith ,  you have great reason to be sad . 	well then ,  you have good reason to be sad . 
I fear you have sold your own lands to see other men’s . 	I’m afraid you’ve sold your own land to see other men’s . 
then to have seen much and to have nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands . 	to have seen much but own nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands . 
yes ,  I have gained my experience . 	not true . 
and your experience makes you sad . 	and your experience makes you sad . 
I had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad— and to travel for it ,  too . 	I’d rather have a jester to make me happy than experience to make me sad—and to travel for all that trouble ,  no less ! 
good day and happiness ,  dear Rosalind . 	good day and happiness to you ,  darling Rosalind . 
my fair Rosalind ,  I come within an hour of my promise . 	my beautiful Rosalind ,  I’m only an hour late . 
I pray thee ,  Rosalind ,  sweet my coz ,  be merry . 	please ,  Rosalind ,  my sweet cousin—be happy . 
dear Celia ,  I show more mirth than I am mistress of ,  and would you yet I were merrier ? 	dear Celia—I already look much happier than I feel ,  but you want me to look even happier ? 
unless you could teach me to forget a banished father ,  you must not learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure . 	unless you can also teach me how to forget my banished father ,  you shouldn’t try to teach me how to be happy . 
herein I see thou lov’st me not with the full weight that I love thee . 	well ,  by this I can see that you don’t love me as much as I love you . 
well ,  I will forget the condition of my estate to rejoice in yours . 	If  Well ,  I’ll just forget the difficulties of my situation ,  in order to focus on the happiness of yours . 
by mine honor I will ,  and when I break that oath ,  let me turn monster . 	I swear I will ,  and if I ever break my promise let me turn into a monster . 
therefore ,  my sweet Rose ,  my dear Rose ,  be merry . 	so please ,  my sweet Rose ,  my dear Rose ,  be happy . 
from henceforth I will ,  coz ,  and devise sports . 	from now on I will ,  cousin ,  and I’ll think of all kinds of games for us . 
let me see—what think you of falling in love ? 	let me see—what do you think about falling in love ? 
break an hour’s promise in love ? 	you’d break a date with your beloved by a whole hour ? 
pardon me ,  dear Rosalind . 	forgive me ,  darling Rosalind . 
nay ,  an you be so tardy ,  come no more in my sight . 	no ,  if you’re ever late like this again ,  I’ll refuse to see you . 
I had as lief be wooed of a snail . 	I’d rather be wooed by a snail . 
of a snail ? 	a snail ? 
besides ,  he brings his destiny with him . 	besides ,  he brings his fate with him . 
what’s that ? 	what fate is that ? 
why ,  horns ,  which such as you are fain to be beholding to your wives for . 	why ,  his cuckold’s horns ,  of course—the kind you men are always blaming on your wives . 
but he comes armed in his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife . 	see ,  the snail already has its horns ,  which prevents nasty rumors from spreading about his wife’s infidelity . 
virtue is no hornmaker ,  and my Rosalind is virtuous . 	a virtuous woman won’t give her husband horns ,  and my Rosalind is definitely virtuous . 
and I am your Rosalind . 	and I am your Rosalind . 
rosalind of a better leer than you . 	come on ,  woo me ,  woo me . 
come ,  woo me ,  woo me ,  for now I am in a holiday humor ,  and like enough to consent . 	I’m in a good mood now and likely to give you what you want . 
what would you say to me now ,  an I were your very ,  very Rosalind ? 	what would you say to me now if I really were your precious little Rosalind ? 
I would kiss before I spoke . 	I’d kiss you before I spoke . 
nay ,  you were better speak first ,  and when you were graveled for lack of matter ,  you might take occasion to kiss . 	no ,  it would be better to speak first and kiss only after you’ve run out of things to say . 
very good orators ,  when they are out ,  they will spit; and for lovers lacking—God warn us—matter ,  the cleanliest shift is to kiss . 	when good orators finish talking ,  they spit; when lovers do (God help us if they ever do) ,  they kiss . 
how if the kiss be denied ? 	what if she won’t kiss me ? 
who could be out ,  being before his beloved mistress ? 	who could be out of things to say if he were with the girl he loves ? 
marry ,  that should you if I were your mistress ,  or I should think my honesty ranker than my wit . 	Indeed ,  you would be out if I were your mistress—if my chastity is worth as much as my wit . 
am not I your Rosalind ? 	aren’t I your Rosalind ? 
I take some joy to say you are because I would be talking of her . 	I like to pretend you are ,  because then it’s almost like actually talking to her . 
no ,  faith ,  die by attorney . 	no ,  you won’t die yourself ,  but only by proxy . 
the poor world is almost six thousand years old ,  and in all this time there was not any man died in his own person ,  videlicet ,  in a love cause . 	this world is almost six thousand years old ,  and in all this time not one man has ever actually died from love . 
then love me ,  Rosalind . 	then love me ,  Rosalind . 
yes ,  faith ,  will I ,  Fridays and Saturdays and all . 	okay ,  I will—on Fridays and Saturdays ,  and the rest . 
and wilt thou have me ? 	and will you have me ? 
ay ,  and twenty such . 	sure ,  and twenty others just like you . 
what sayest thou ? 	what’s that ? 
are you not good ? 	well ,  aren’t you a good man ? 
I hope so . 	I hope so . 
why then ,  can one desire too much of a good thing ? — Come ,  sister ,  you shall be the priest and marry us . —Give me your hand ,  Orlando . —What do you say ,  sister ? 	and can a person ever have too much of a good thing ? —Come on ,  sister ,  you can be the priest and marry us . —Give me your hand ,  Orlando . —What do you say ,  sister ? 
pray thee ,  marry us . 	please ,  marry us . 
I will . 	I do . 
ay ,  but when ? 	okay ,  but when ? 
why ,  now ,  as fast as she can marry us . 	right now; as fast as she can say the vows . 
then you must say  “ I take thee ,  Rosalind ,  for wife .  ”  I take thee ,  Rosalind ,  for wife . 	then you have to say ,   “ I take you ,  Rosalind ,  to be my lawfully wedded wife .  ”  I take you ,  Rosalind ,  to be my lawfully wedded wife . 
I might ask you for your commission ,  but I do take thee ,  Orlando ,  for my husband . 	maybe I should ask you what right you have to take me ,  but I’ll take you ,  Orlando ,  to be my husband . 
so do all thoughts . 	so do all thoughts . 
they are winged . 	they have wings . 
now tell me how long you would have her after you have possessed her . 	now tell me how long you intend to keep her . 
forever and a day . 	forever and a day . 
say  “ a day ”  without the  “ ever .  ”  No ,  no ,  Orlando ,  men are April when they woo ,  December when they wed .  Maids are May when they are maids ,  but the sky changes when they are wives . 	no ,  Orlando ,  men are like April when they’re wooing a girl—young ,  and passionate—but like December once they’re married and their passions have cooled . 
I will be more jealous of thee than a Barbary cock -  pigeon over his hen ,  more clamorous than a parrot against rain ,  more newfangled than an ape ,  more giddy in my desires than a monkey . 	I’ll be more jealous of you than a wild rooster over his hen; more noisy than a parrot chattering about the rain; more fond of new things than an ape; more giddy about getting what I want than a monkey . 
I will weep for nothing ,  like Diana in the fountain ,  and I will do that when you are disposed to be merry . 	I’ll cry at nothing ,  and I’ll always do it when you’re in a good mood . 
I will laugh like a hyena ,  and that when thou art inclined to sleep . 	and when you want to go to sleep ,  I’ll be up laughing like a hyena . 
but will my Rosalind do so ? 	but will my Rosalind do this ,  too ? 
oh ,  but she is wise . 	but she is wise . 
or else she could not have the wit to do this . 	right . 
the wiser ,  the waywarder . 	the wiser the woman ,  the wilder . 
make the doors upon a woman’s wit ,  and it will out at the casement . 	If you close the doors on a woman’s wit ,  it’ll fly out the window . 
shut that ,  and ’twill out at the keyhole . 	If you shut the windows ,  it will pour out the keyhole . 
stop that ,  ’twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney . 	If you stop up the keyhole ,  it will escape from the chimney along with the smoke . 
a man that had a wife with such a wit ,  he might say  “ Wit ,  whither wilt ?  ”   Nay ,  you might keep that check for it ,  till you met your wife’s wit going to your neighbor’s bed . 	a man with a wife like that might ask ,   “ Hey ,  wandering wit ,  where are you off to ?  ”  Nah ,  better save the questions for when you find her in your neighbor’s bed . 
you shall never take her without her answer unless you take her without her tongue . 	you’ll never find her without an answer unless you find her without a tongue . 
oh ,  that woman that cannot make her fault her husband’s occasion ,  let her never nurse her child herself ,  for she will breed it like a fool . 	a woman who doesn’t know how to make her own indiscretions look like her husband’s fault is hardly a woman . 
for these two hours ,  Rosalind ,  I will leave thee . 	rosalind ,  I have to leave you for two hours . 
I must attend the duke at dinner . 	I must join the duke for lunch . 
by two o'clock I will be with thee again . 	I’ll be back here with you by two o'clock . 
ay ,  go your ways ,  go your ways . 	oh ,  go ,  leave me . 
I knew what you would prove . 	I knew you’d turn out this way . 
my friends told me as much ,  and I thought no less . 	my friends told me as much ,  and I knew it ,  too . 
tis but one cast away ,  and so ,  come ,  death . 	so ,  take me ,  death ! 
two o'clock is your hour ? 	you’ll be back at two o'clock ? 
ay ,  sweet Rosalind . 	yes ,  sweet Rosalind . 
therefore beware my censure ,  and keep your promise . 	so beware of my contempt ,  and keep your promise . 
with no less religion than if thou wert indeed my Rosalind . 	I’ll keep my promise just as if you really were Rosalind . 
so ,  adieu . 	so ,  goodbye . 
well ,  time is the old justice that examines all such offenders ,  and let time try . 	well ,  time is the old judge that tries your kind of criminal . 
adieu . 	goodbye . 
you have simply misused our sex in your love - prate . 	you have absolutely abused our sex in this love talk of yours . 
we must have your doublet and hose plucked over your head and show the world what the bird hath done to her own nest . 	we should rip off your man’s clothing and show the world the woman who has represented her own kind so badly . 
o coz ,  coz ,  coz ,  my pretty little coz ,  that thou didst know how many fathom deep I am in love . 	oh cousin ,  cousin ,  cousin ,  my sweet little cousin ,  I wish you knew how deep in love I am . 
or rather bottomless ,  that as fast as you pour affection in ,  it runs out . 	or it’s bottomless ,  at least: pour affection in one end ,  and it runs out the other . 
no ,  that same wicked bastard of Venus that was begot of thought ,  conceived of spleen ,  and born of madness ,  that blind rascally boy that abuses everyone’s eyes because his own are out ,  let him be judge how deep I am in love . 	cupid—that blind bastard son of Venus ,  conceived from a thought and anger ,  born from insanity ,  that blind ,  naughty boy who makes everyone else go blind just because he can’t see himself—let Cupid judge how deep my love runs . 
I’ll tell thee ,  Aliena ,  I cannot be out of the sight of Orlando . 	I’m telling you ,  Aliena ,  I can’t stand being apart from Orlando . 
I’ll go find a shadow and sigh till he come . 	I’m going to find some shade and sigh until he returns . 
and I’ll sleep . 	and I’m going to sleep . 
which is he that killed the deer ? 	which one of you killed the deer ? 
yes ,  sir . 	yes ,  sir . 
sing it . 	then sing it . 
tis no matter how it be in tune ,  so it make noise enough . 	It doesn’t matter if it’s in tune so long as it’s loud enough . 
how say you now ? 	what do you say now ? 
Is it not past two o'clock ? 	Isn’t it past two o'clock ? 
and here much Orlando . 	and I see a lot of Orlando here . 
look who comes here . 	look who’s coming . 
no ,  I protest ,  I know not the contents . 	no ,  I swear ,  I don’t even know what’s in it . 
phoebe did write it . 	phoebe wrote it . 
what shall be our sport ,  then ? 	well ,  then ,  what should we do for fun instead ? 
let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from her wheel ,  that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally . 	let’s go find that hussy ,  Fortune ,  and and mock her till she starts distributing her gifts more equally . 
no ? 	oh ,  really ? 
when Nature hath made a fair creature ,  may she not by Fortune fall into the fire ? 	well ,  when Nature makes a person beautiful ,  can’t Fortune make her fall into a fire ,  thereby making her ugly after all ? 
though Nature hath given us wit to flout at Fortune ,  hath not Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument ? 	and even though Nature has given us the wit to have this argument ,  hasn’t Fortune sent this fool here to stop us ? 
come ,  come ,  you are a fool ,  And turned into the extremity of love . 	come on ,  you’re a fool ,  and driven to extreme measures by love . 
I say she never did invent this letter . 	the point is that she didn’t write this letter . 
this is a man’s invention ,  and his hand . 	these are a man’s words ,  and his handwriting . 
sure it is hers . 	I’m telling you ,  it’s hers . 
why ,  she defies me Like Turk to Christian . 	why ,  she challenges me like a Muslim would challenge a Christian . 
women’s gentle brain Could not drop forth such giant - rude invention ,  Such Ethiop words ,  blacker in their effect Than in their countenance . 	no ,  a woman’s gentle brain could never have come up with such crude expressions and even harsher meanings . 
will you hear the letter ? 	do you want to hear what she says ? 
so please you ,  for I never heard it yet ,  Yet heard too much of Phoebe’s cruelty . 	If you want to read it ,  as I haven’t heard it yet ,  though I’ve heard too much of Phoebe’s cruelty . 
she Phoebes me . 	she’s Phoebe - ing me . 
mark how the tyrant writes . 	listen to what the tyrant says . 
that a maiden’s heart hath burned ? 	you call that ranting ? 
call you this railing ? 	you call this sneering ? 
why ,  thy godhead laid apart ,  Warr’st thou with a woman’s heart ? 	why do you pity him ? 
not to be endured . 	follow them straight to the cottage . 
It is no boast ,  being asked ,  to say we are . 	since you asked ,  I suppose it’s not bragging to say that we are . 
orlando doth commend him to you both ,  And to that youth he calls his Rosalind He sends this bloody napkin . 	orlando sends his regards to you both ,  and he sends this bloody handkerchief to the boy he calls  “ his Rosalind .  ”  Is that you ? 
are you he ? 	It is . 
some of my shame ,  if you will know of me What man I am ,  and how ,  and why ,  and where This handkercher was stained . 	It’s about who I am ,  and how ,  why ,  and where this handkerchief was stained . 
I pray you ,  tell it . 	please ,  tell us . 
he threw his eye aside— And mark what object did present itself: Under an old oak ,  whose boughs were mossed with age And high top bald with dry antiquity ,  A wretched ,  ragged man ,  o'ergrown with hair ,  Lay sleeping on his back . 	he looked to the side ,  and pay attention to what he saw then: under an oak tree—whose lower branches were mossy with age and top branches ancient and brittle—he saw a wretched beggar ,  with overgrown hair and beard ,  asleep on his back . 
this seen ,  Orlando did approach the man And found it was his brother ,  his elder brother . 	he discovered that the man was his older brother . 
oh ,  I have heard him speak of that same brother ,  And he did render him the most unnatural That lived amongst men . 	oh ,  I’ve heard him talk about that brother ,  and he described him as the most inhumane man alive . 
but to Orlando: did he leave him there ,  Food to the sucked and hungry lioness ? 	he turned away twice and almost left him there . 
twice did he turn his back and purposed so ,  But kindness ,  nobler ever than revenge ,  And nature ,  stronger than his just occasion ,  Made him give battle to the lioness ,  Who quickly fell before him; in which hurtling ,  From miserable slumber I awaked . 	but his kindness was nobler than even his desire for revenge ,  his natural goodness was stronger than his need to give his brother what he deserved . 
are you his brother ? 	are you his brother ? 
was ’t you he rescued ? 	was it you that he rescued ? 
was ’t you that did so oft contrive to kill him ? 	was it you that was always plotting to kill him ? 
twas I ,  but ’tis not I .  I do not shame To tell you what I was ,  since my conversion So sweetly tastes ,  being the thing I am . 	that was me ,  but it’s not me— I’m not ashamed to tell you what I once was ,  since I’m so happy to have since converted . 
but for the bloody napkin ? 	but what about the bloody handkerchief ? 
by and by . 	I’ll get there . 
brief ,  I recovered him ,  bound up his wound ,  And after some small space ,  being strong at heart , 	after a brief time—as he is a strong ,  brave man—
many will swoon when they do look on blood . 	many people faint when they see blood . 
there is more in it . —Cousin Ganymede . 	there’s more to it than that . —Ganymede ! 
look ,  he recovers . 	look ,  he’s recovering . 
I would I were at home . 	I want to go home . 
we’ll lead you thither . 	we’ll take you there . 
I pray you ,  will you take him by the arm ? 	please ,  will you take his arm ? 
be of good cheer ,  youth . 	buck up ,  boy ! 
you a man ? 	you’re a man ? 
you lack a man’s heart . 	you don’t have a man’s courage . 
I do so ,  I confess it . 	It’s true ,  I confess . 
ah ,  sirrah ,  a body would think this was well - counterfeited . 	oh ,  sir ,  someone would think I was a good fake . 
I pray you tell your brother how well I counterfeited . 	please tell your brother what a convincing show I put on . 
heigh - ho . 	whoo - hoo ! 
this was not counterfeit . 	that was no show . 
there is too great testimony in your complexion that it was a passion of earnest . 	your cheeks are too flushed for me to believe that was a fake faint . 
counterfeit ,  I assure you . 	fake ,  I’m telling you . 
well then ,  take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man . 	well ,  then ,  be brave and pretend to be a man . 
so I do . 	that’s what I’m doing . 
but i' faith ,  I should have been a woman by right . 	but honestly ,  I should have been a woman . 
come ,  you look paler and paler . 	come on ,  you keep getting paler . 
that will I ,  for I must bear answer back How you excuse my brother ,  Rosalind . 	I’ll do that ,  because I have to tell my brother how you forgave him ,  Rosalind . 
I shall devise something . 	I’ll think of something . 
but I pray you commend my counterfeiting to him . 	but please ,  tell him how well I faked a faint . 
will you go ? 	will you come with us ? 
we shall find a time ,  Audrey . 	we’ll get married at some point ,  Audrey . 
patience ,  gentle Audrey . 	be patient . 
faith ,  the priest was good enough ,  for all the old gentleman’s saying . 	really ,  the priest was good enough ,  no matter what that old guy said . 
a most wicked Sir Oliver ,  Audrey ,  a most vile Martext . 	no ,  he was wicked and vile . 
but ,  Audrey ,  there is a youth here in the forest lays claim to you . 	but Audrey ,  there’s a boy in the forest who claims you’re his girl . 
here comes the man you mean . 	here comes the man himself . 
It is meat and drink to me to see a clown . 	It warms my heart to encounter such a country bumpkin . 
how old are you ,  friend ? 	how old are you ,  friend ? 
five - and - twenty ,  sir . 	twenty - five ,  sir . 
a ripe age . 	a mature age . 
Is thy name William ? 	Is your name William ? 
william ,  sir . 	yes ,  it’s William ,  sir . 
a fair name . 	a good name . 
wast born i' th' forest here ? 	were you born here in the forest ? 
ay ,  sir ,  I thank God . 	yes sir ,  thank God . 
thank God .  ”  A good answer . 	thank God ” —that’s a good answer . 
art rich ? 	are you rich ? 
faith ,  sir ,  so - so . 	well ,  so - so . 
so - so ”  is good ,  very good ,  very excellent good . 	so - so ”  is good ,  very good ,  an excellent answer . 
and yet it is not: it is but so - so . 	and then again ,  it’s not so good ,  but only so - so . 
art thou wise ? 	are you wise ? 
ay ,  sir ,  I have a pretty wit . 	yes sir ,  I’m fairly witty . 
why ,  thou sayst well . 	well ,  that’s a fine answer . 
give me your hand . 	give me your hand . 
art thou learned ? 	are you educated ? 
no ,  sir . 	no ,  sir . 
then learn this of me: to have is to have . 	then learn this from me: if you have something ,  you have it . 
for it is a figure in rhetoric that drink ,  being poured out of a cup into a glass ,  by filling the one doth empty the other . 	everyone knows that when you pour a drink out of a cup and into a glass ,  the cup becomes empty . 
he ,  sir ,  that must marry this woman . 	why ,  the he that will marry this woman . 
therefore ,  you clown ,  abandon—which is ,  in the vulgar ,   “ leave ” —the society—which in the boorish is  “ company ” —of this female—which in the common is  “ woman ” ; which together is ,  abandon the society of this female ,  or ,  clown ,  thou perishest; or ,  to thy better understanding ,  diest; or ,  to wit ,  I kill thee ,  make thee away ,  translate thy life into death ,  thy liberty into bondage . 	or ,  rather ,  I’ll kill you ,  or I’ll do away with you ,  or I’ll turn your life into death and your freedom into captivity . 
I will deal in poison with thee ,  or in bastinado ,  or in steel . 	I’ll poison you ,  or beat you with a club ,  or stab you with a sword . 
I will bandy with thee in faction . 	I’ll bandy you about and overwhelm you with my cleverness . 
I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways . 	I will ,  in other words ,  kill you in three hundred and fifty ways . 
therefore tremble and depart . 	therefore ,  tremble with fear and leave . 
do ,  good William . 	do what he says ,  William . 
god rest you merry ,  sir . 	farewell ,  sir . 
our master and mistress seeks you . 	our master and mistress are looking for you . 
come away ,  away . 	let’s go . 
trip ,  Audrey ,  trip ,  Audrey . —I attend ,  I attend . 	hurry up ,  Audrey ,  hurry . —I’m coming ,  I’m coming . 
mistress ,  you must come away to your father . 	mistress ,  you have to go see your father . 
were you made the messenger ? 	did they make you the messenger ? 
of a certain knight that swore by his honor they were good pancakes ,  and swore by his honor the mustard was naught . 	from a certain knight who swore on his honor that the pancakes he was eating were good ,  and that the mustard on top of them—he swore on his honor—was bad . 
now ,  I’ll stand to it ,  the pancakes were naught and the mustard was good ,  and yet was not the knight forsworn . 	now ,  I’ll swear to the opposite—that the pancakes were rotten ,  and the mustard was fine—but even so ,  the knight wasn’t lying . 
how prove you that in the great heap of your knowledge ? 	and how ,  out of your great heap of knowledge ,  will you manage to prove that ? 
ay ,  marry ,  now unmuzzle your wisdom . 	yes ,  please; unleash your wisdom . 
stand you both forth now: stroke your chins and swear by your beards that I am a knave . 	watch me: stroke your chins and swear by your beards that I am a knave . 
by our beards (if we had them) ,  thou art . 	by our beards (if we had them) ,  you are a knave . 
by my knavery (if I had it) ,  then I were . 	and I swear by my wickedness (if I had any) that I am a knave . 
Is ’t possible that on so little acquaintance you should like her ? 	Is it really possible that you could like her right after meeting her ? 
It shall be to your good ,  for my father’s house and all the revenue that was old Sir Rowland’s will I estate upon you ,  and here live and die a shepherd . 	It will be to your advantage ,  because I’ll leave our father’s house and all his property to you ,  while I live and die a shepherd here in the forest . 
you have my consent . 	you have my consent . 
let your wedding be tomorrow . 	you can be married tomorrow if you want . 
thither will I invite the duke and all’s contented followers . 	I’ll invite the duke and all of his followers . 
go you and prepare Aliena ,  for look you ,  here comes my Rosalind . 	go get Aliena ready—because ,  look ,  here comes my Rosalind . 
and you ,  fair sister . 	and hello to you ,  fair sister . 
o my dear Orlando ,  how it grieves me to see thee wear thy heart in a scarf . 	oh ,  darling Orlando ,  it’s so hard to see you wearing your heart in a sling . 
It is my arm . 	actually ,  it’s my arm . 
I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a lion . 	I thought your heart had been wounded by a lion’s claws . 
they are in the very wrath of love ,  and they will together . 	they’re in the heat of passion; they simply have to be together . 
clubs cannot part them . 	you couldn’t beat the two of them apart . 
they shall be married tomorrow ,  and I will bid the duke to the nuptial . 	they’ll be married tomorrow ,  and I’ll invite the duke to the ceremony . 
but Oh ,  how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man’s eyes . 	but ,  oh ,  it makes me bitter to look at happiness through another man’s eyes . 
by so much the more shall I tomorrow be at the height of heart - heaviness ,  by how much I shall think my brother happy in having what he wishes for . 	tomorrow I’ll be at the depths of my misery thinking about the happiness my brother has achieved ,  in having what he wished for . 
why ,  then ,  tomorrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind ? 	well then ,  can’t I act as Rosalind for you tomorrow ? 
I can live no longer by thinking . 	I can’t live by pretending anymore . 
I will weary you then no longer with idle talking . 	I won’t exhaust you anymore with idle chitchat . 
I speak not this that you should bear a good opinion of my knowledge ,  insomuch I say I know you are . 	you should know that I think you’re a smart man . 
believe then ,  if you please ,  that I can do strange things . 	believe me ,  then ,  that I have special powers . 
I have ,  since I was three year old ,  conversed with a magician ,  most profound in his art and yet not damnable . 	since I was three years old ,  I’ve been in contact with a powerful but virtuous magician—no black magic here . 
If you do love Rosalind so near the heart as your gesture cries it out ,  when your brother marries Aliena shall you marry her . 	If you love Rosalind as much as you say you do ,  you will marry her when your brother marries Aliena . 
I know into what straits of fortune she is driven ,  and it is not impossible to me ,  if it appear not inconvenient to you ,  to set her before your eyes tomorrow ,  human as she is ,  and without any danger . 	I know where she is and ,  if you don’t mind ,  I will set her before you tomorrow ,  whole and unharmed . 
speak’st thou in sober meanings ? 	are you serious ? 
by my life I do ,  which I tender dearly ,  though I say I am a magician . 	I swear on my life ,  which I take pretty seriously ,  even if I am a magician . 
look ,  here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers . 	look ,  here comes someone who loves me ,  along with someone who loves her . 
I care not if I have . 	I don’t care . 
you are there followed by a faithful shepherd . 	a faithful shepherd worships you . 
good shepherd ,  tell this youth what ’tis to love . 	silvius ,  tell this youth what it means to be in love . 
It is to be all made of sighs and tears ,  And so am I for Phoebe . 	It means being full of sighs and tears ,  like I am for Phoebe . 
and I for Ganymede . 	and like I am for Ganymede . 
and I for Rosalind . 	and like I am for Rosalind . 
and I for no woman . 	and like I am for no woman . 
It is to be all made of faith and service ,  And so am I for Phoebe . 	It means being faithful and ready to serve ,  just like I am for Phoebe . 
and I for Ganymede . 	and like I am for Ganymede . 
and I for Rosalind . 	and like I am for Rosalind . 
and I for no woman . 	and like I am for no woman . 
It is to be all made of fantasy ,  All made of passion and all made of wishes ,  All adoration ,  duty ,  and observance ,  All humbleness ,  all patience and impatience ,  All purity ,  all trial ,  all observance ,  And so am I for Phoebe . 	It means being filled with fantasy; with passion and wishes; with adoration ,  loyalty ,  and devotion . 
and so am I for Rosalind . 	and I for Rosalind . 
and so am I for no woman . 	and I for no woman . 
If this be so ,  why blame you me to love you ? 	since you know all this is true ,  why do you blame me for loving you ? 
If this be so ,  why blame you me to love you ? 	and why do you blame me for loving you ? 
If this be so ,  why blame you me to love you ? 	and why do you blame me for loving you ? 
why do you speak ,  too ,   “ Why blame you me to love you ?  ”  ? 	who are you talking to ? 
to her that is not here ,  nor doth not hear . 	I’m saying it to the girl who isn’t here and doesn’t hear me . 
pray you ,  no more of this . 	all right ,  stop this . 
tis like the howling of Irish wolves against the moon . 	you sound like a pack of wolves howling at the moon . 
I’ll not fail ,  if I live . 	as long as I’m alive ,  I’ll be here . 
nor I . 	me too . 
nor I . 	me too . 
tomorrow is the joyful day ,  Audrey . 	tomorrow is the happy day ,  Audrey . 
tomorrow will we be married . 	we’ll be married tomorrow . 
I do desire it with all my heart ,  and I hope it is no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the world . 	I hope it doesn’t make me unchaste that I really want to be a married woman . 
here comes two of the banished duke’s pages . 	here come two of Duke Senior’s pages . 
well met ,  honest gentleman . 	good afternoon ,  good gentleman . 
by my troth ,  well met . 	It really is good to see you . 
come ,  sit ,  sit ,  and a song . 	come ,  sit ,  sit ,  and sing me a song . 
we are for you . 	sounds good to us . 
sit i' th' middle . 	sit between us . 
shall we clap into ’t roundly ,  without hawking or spitting or saying we are hoarse ,  which are the only prologues to a bad voice ? 	should we just get down to it ? 
I' faith ,  i' faith ,  and both in a tune like two gypsies on a horse . 	yes ,  yes ,  and let’s sing in unison ,  like two gypsies riding on a single horse . 
truly ,  young gentlemen ,  though there was no great matter in the ditty ,  yet the note was very untunable . 	really ,  young men ,  though it wasn’t a very hard song to get right ,  the music was still all out of tune . 
dost thou believe ,  Orlando ,  that the boy Can do all this that he hath promisèd ? 	orlando ,  do you really believe that this boy can do everything he’s promised ? 
that would I ,  had I kingdoms to give with her . 	yes ,  even if I had whole kingdoms to give along with her . 
that would I ,  were I of all kingdoms king . 	I will ,  even if I were king of all kingdoms . 
that will I ,  should I die the hour after . 	yes ,  even if I die an hour later . 
but if you do refuse to marry me ,  You’ll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd ? 	but if you decide not to marry me ,  you’ll marry this faithful shepherd instead ? 
so is the bargain . 	that’s the deal . 
though to have her and death were both one thing . 	even if marrying her meant I died . 
I have promised to make all this matter even . 	I’ve promised to make everything right . 
keep your word ,  Phoebe ,  that you’ll marry me Or else ,  refusing me ,  to wed this shepherd . 	phoebe ,  keep your promise to marry me ,  and to marry this shepherd if you choose to refuse me . 
keep your word ,  Silvius ,  that you’ll marry her If she refuse me . 	silvius ,  keep your promise to marry Phoebe if she refuses me . 
and from hence I go To make these doubts all even . 	I’ll leave now ,  to set all these things right . 
I do remember in this shepherd boy Some lively touches of my daughter’s favor . 	this shepherd boy reminds me quite vividly of my daughter . 
my lord ,  the first time that I ever saw him Methought he was a brother to your daughter . 	my lord ,  when I first saw him I thought he was your daughter’s brother . 
but ,  my good lord ,  this boy is forest - born And hath been tutored in the rudiments Of many desperate studies by his uncle ,  Whom he reports to be a great magician Obscurèd in the circle of this forest . 	but ,  my lord ,  this boy was born in the forest and has been schooled not in the usual subjects but only in magic . 
good my lord ,  bid him welcome . 	my lord ,  welcome this man . 
this is the motley - minded gentleman that I have so often met in the forest . 	this is the jester I have met so many times in the forest . 
he hath been a courtier ,  he swears . 	he swears he used to be a courtier . 
If any man doubt that ,  let him put me to my purgation . 	If anyone doubts this ,  let him put me on trial . 
I have undone three tailors . 	I have bankrupted three tailors . 
I have had four quarrels ,  and like to have fought one . 	I have quarreled four times ,  and almost got in a fight . 
and how was that ta'en up ? 	and how was that one settled ? 
faith ,  we met and found the quarrel was upon the seventh cause . 	well ,  we almost fought and then realized that we had reached the seventh cause . 
how  “ seventh cause ”  ? —Good my lord ,  like this fellow . 	what do you mean ,  the seventh cause ? 
I like him very well . 	I like him very well . 
prithee ,  who is ’t that thou mean’st ? 	tell me ,  who is this knight ? 
one that old Frederick ,  your father ,  loves . 	a man old Frederick ,  your father ,  loves . 
my father’s love is enough to honor him . 	If he has my father’s love ,  then that’s enough honor for me . 
enough . 	enough of this . 
speak no more of him; you’ll be whipped for taxation one of these days . 	no more talk about my father; you’ll be whipped for slander one of these days . 
the more pity that fools may not speak wisely what wise men do foolishly . 	It’s a pity that fools aren’t allowed to speak wisely about the foolish things that wise men do . 
with his mouth full of news . 	honestly ,  you’re speaking the truth—ever since the fools were  With his mouth full of news . 
which he will put on us as pigeons feed their young . 	which he’ll shove down our throats the way pigeons feed their young . 
then shall we be news - crammed . 	then we’ll be stuffed with news . 
all the better . 	well that’s good . 
we shall be the more marketable . —Bonjour ,  Monsieur Le Beau . 	If we’re  Hello ,  Monsieur Le Beau . 
what’s the news ? 	what’s the news ? 
fair princess ,  you have lost much good sport . 	fair princess ,  you’ve missed some good sport . 
sport ? 	sport ? 
of what color ? 	of what
god 'ild you ,  sir . 	god bless you ,  sir . 
a poor virgin ,  sir ,  an ill - favored thing ,  sir ,  but mine own . 	this poor virgin isn’t much to look at ,  sir ,  but she’s mine . 
by my faith ,  he is very swift and sententious . 	really ,  he’s very witty ,  and full of wise sayings . 
but for the seventh cause . 	but back to that argument you mentioned . 
how did you find the quarrel on the seventh cause ? 	what’s the  “ seventh cause ”  ? 
upon a lie seven times removed . —Bear your body more seeming ,  Audrey . —As thus ,  sir: I did dislike the cut of a certain courtier’s beard . 	I didn’t like the way a particular courtier had cut his beard . 
he sent me word if I said his beard was not cut well ,  he was in the mind it was . 	he sent me word that ,  whether I liked it or not ,  he liked it fine . 
this is called  “ the countercheck quarrelsome ,  ”  and so to  “ the lie circumstantial ”  and  “ the lie direct .  ”   And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut ? 	they call this  “ the argumentative countercheck .  ”  And so on through  “ the circumstantial lie ”  and  “ the direct lie .  ”  And how many times did you say his beard wasn’t cut well ? 
he’s as good at anything and yet a fool . 	he’s as smart as they come ,  but just a jester . 
he uses his folly like a stalking - horse ,  and under the presentation of that he shoots his wit . 	he uses his clownishness to disguise his deadly wit . 
then is there mirth in heaven When earthly things ,  made even ,  Atone together . 	there is laughter in heaven When earthly affairs are put right And people unite . 
good duke ,  receive thy daughter . 	good duke ,  come receive your daughter . 
hymen from heaven brought her ,  Yea ,  brought her hither ,  That thou mightst join her hand with his Whose heart within his bosom is . 	hymen brought her from heaven Yes ,  brought her here . 
If there be truth in sight ,  you are my daughter . 	If my eyes don’t deceive me ,  you are my daughter . 
If there be truth in sight ,  you are my Rosalind . 	If my eyes don’t deceive me ,  you are my Rosalind . 
If sight and shape be true ,  Why then ,  my love adieu . 	If my eyes aren’t deceiving me ,  goodbye ,  love . 
peace ,  ho ! 	quiet ! 
o my dear niece ,  welcome thou art to me ,  Even daughter ,  welcome in no less degree . 	my niece ,  you are welcome here as if you were my own daughter . 
let me have audience for a word or two . 	let me have your attention for a moment . 
I am the second son of old Sir Rowland ,  That bring these tidings to this fair assembly . 	I’m Sir Rowland’s middle son ,  and I bring you news . 
duke Frederick ,  hearing how that every day Men of great worth resorted to this forest ,  Addressed a mighty power ,  which were on foot In his own conduct ,  purposely to take His brother here and put him to the sword . 	when Duke Frederick heard that great ,  worthy men were coming to this forest every day ,  he raised a large army to invade this land and fight his brother . 
this to be true I do engage my life . 	I swear on my life that I’m speaking the truth . 
sir ,  by your patience: if I heard you rightly ,  The duke hath put on a religious life And thrown into neglect the pompous court . 	do you mean to say that the duke has abandoned the glamorous court to live as a monk ? 
he hath . 	yes ,  he has . 
to him will I . 	I will go find him . 
out of these convertites There is much matter to be heard and learned . 	there is much to be learned from these converts . 
stay ,  Jaques ,  stay . 	stay ,  Jaques ,  stay here for a bit . 
to see no pastime I . 	no ,  this fun is not for me . 
what you would have I’ll stay to know at your abandoned cave . 	I’ll wait for you in your cave ,  where you can tell me what you need from me . 
proceed ,  proceed . 	let’s proceed . 
we’ll so begin these rites As we do trust they’ll end ,  in true delights . 	we’ll begin the ceremony the way we hope it will end—with delight . 
If it be true that good wine needs no bush ,  ’tis true that a good play needs no epilogue . 	If it’s true that you don’t need
what color ,  madam ? 	what color ,  madam ? 
how shall I answer you ? 	I don’t understand—how should I answer that ? 
as wit and fortune will . 	however your wit and luck allow . 
you tell us the manner of the wrestling . 	tell us about this wrestling . 
well ,  the beginning that is dead and buried . 	well ,  we’ve missed the beginning; it’s dead and buried . 
there comes an old man and his three sons— I could match this beginning with an old tale . 	there comes an old man with his three sons— It sounds like the beginning of an old folktale . 
three proper young men of excellent growth and presence . 	three proper young men ,  all good looking and with great presence—
with bills on their necks:  “ Be it known unto all men by these presents .  ”   The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles ,  the duke’s wrestler ,  which Charles in a moment threw him and broke three of his ribs ,  that there is little hope of life in him . 	right ,  and they wore proclamations around their necks ,  saying ,   “ Be it known to all men by these  The eldest of the three brothers wrestled with Charles ,  the duke’s wrestler . 
so he served the second ,  and so the third . 	charles did the same to the second brother ,  and the third . 
yonder they lie ,  the poor old man their father making such pitiful dole over them that all the beholders take his part with weeping . 	they’re lying over there ,  and the poor old man ,  their father ,  weeps so piteously over them that the whole audience has joined him in grieving . 
alas ! 	oh ,  dear ! 
but what is the sport ,  monsieur ,  that the ladies have lost ? 	but tell me ,  monsieur—what sport are the ladies missing ? 
why ,  this that I speak of . 	why ,  the one I just told you about . 
or I ,  I promise thee . 	me too ,  I swear . 
but is there any else longs to see this broken music in his sides ? 	doesn’t anyone else want to see this ,  and hear breath wheezing out from broken ribs ? 
shall we see this wrestling ,  cousin ? 	shall we go watch this wrestling ,  cousin ? 
yonder sure they are coming . 	yes ,  I see them coming . 
let us now stay and see it . 	let’s stay and watch . 
come on . 	come on . 
since the youth will not be entreated ,  his own peril on his forwardness . 	since the youth won’t be reasoned with ,  he’ll have to suffer for his stubbornness . 
Is yonder the man ? 	Is that the man ? 
even he ,  madam . 	that’s him ,  madam . 
alas ,  he is too young . 	alas ,  he is too young . 
yet he looks successfully . 	yet he seems capable . 
how now ,  daughter and cousin ? 	what’s up ,  daughter and niece ? 
are you crept hither to see the wrestling ? 	have you snuck over here to watch the wrestling ? 
ay ,  my liege ,  so please you give us leave . 	yes ,  my lord ,  if you give us permission . 
you will take little delight in it ,  I can tell you ,  there is such odds in the man . 	you won’t enjoy it much ,  I can tell you ,  the odds are so against this young man . 
In pity of the challenger’s youth ,  I would fain dissuade him ,  but he will not be entreated . 	because he’s so young ,  I’ve tried to discourage him ,  but he won’t listen . 
call him hither ,  good Monsieur Le Beau . 	call him over here ,  good Monsieur Le Beau . 
yonder comes my master ,  your brother . 	I remember ,  Adam ,  that’s  Here comes my master ,  your brother . 
go apart ,  Adam ,  and thou shalt hear how he will shake me up . 	go hide ,  Adam ,  and you’ll hear how he abuses me . 
monsieur the challenger ,  the Princess calls for you . 	mister Challenger ,  the princess wants to speak to you . 
I attend them with all respect and duty . 	I’ll wait on them with all respect and duty . 
young man ,  have you challenged Charles the wrestler ? 	young man ,  have you challenged Charles the Wrestler ? 
no ,  fair princess . 	no ,  lovely princess . 
he is the general challenger . 	he is the general challenger . 
I come but in as others do ,  to try with him the strength of my youth . 	I have only come in—like the others have—to try to fight him with the strength of my youth . 
young gentleman ,  your spirits are too bold for your years . 	young gentleman ,  you are too bold for your age . 
you have seen cruel proof of this man’s strength . 	you have seen the cruel proof of this man’s strength . 
If you saw yourself with your eyes or knew yourself with your judgment ,  the fear of your adventure would counsel you to a more equal enterprise . 	If you took a good look at yourself ,  or if you thought about this more carefully ,  your fear would teach you to act more cautiously . 
we pray you for your own sake to embrace your own safety and give over this attempt . 	we beg you ,  for your own sake ,  to respect your safety and give up . 
do ,  young sir . 	please ,  young sir . 
but let your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my trial ,  wherein ,  if I be foiled ,  there is but one shamed that was never gracious; if killed ,  but one dead that was willing to be so . 	If I’m killed ,  it will only be the death of a man who was willing to be dead . 
I shall do my friends no wrong ,  for I have none to lament me; the world no injury ,  for in it I have nothing . 	I won’t wrong any of my friends ,  because I don’t have any to mourn for me ,  and I won’t have wronged the world ,  because I don’t have anything in the world . 
only in the world I fill up a place which may be better supplied when I have made it empty . 	In this world ,  I’m only taking up space . 
the little strength that I have ,  I would it were with you . 	I wish I could give you the little strength that I have . 
and mine ,  to eke out hers . 	mine too ,  to join hers . 
fare you well . 	good luck . 
pray heaven I be deceived in you . 	I hope to God I’m wrong about your chances . 
your heart’s desires be with you . 	I hope you get what you desire ! 
you shall try but one fall . 	you get only one round . 
no ,  I warrant your Grace you shall not entreat him to a second ,  that have so mightily persuaded him from a first . 	no ,  I’m sure your Grace won’t be able to persuade him to try a second round ,  even though you couldn’t dissuade him from trying the first . 
I would I were invisible ,  to catch the strong fellow by the leg . 	you should mock me    I wish I were invisible ,  so I could grab that strong fellow by the leg . 
o excellent young man ! 	oh ,  what an excellent young man ! 
If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye ,  I can tell who should down . 	If I could shoot lightning bolts from my eyes ,  I can tell you who’d be on the ground . 
no more ,  no more . 	no more ,  no more . 
how dost thou ,  Charles ? 	how are you doing ,  Charles ? 
he cannot speak ,  my lord . 	he can’t speak ,  my lord . 
bear him away . 	carry him away . 
what is thy name ,  young man ? 	what is your name ,  young man ? 
orlando ,  my liege ,  the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys . 	orlando ,  my lord ,  the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys . 
I would thou hadst been son to some man else . 	I wish you were someone else’s son . 
the world esteemed thy father honorable ,  But I did find him still mine enemy . 	the whole world thought your father was an honorable man ,  but he was always my enemy . 
I would thou hadst told me of another father . 	I wish you had told me you had a different father . 
were I my father ,  coz ,  would I do this ? 	If I were my father ,  cousin ,  would I do this ? 
I am more proud to be Sir Rowland’s son ,  His youngest son ,  and would not change that calling To be adopted heir to Frederick . 	I’m proud to be Sir Rowland’s son—his youngest son—and I would never change that ,  not even to be Frederick’s adopted heir . 
my father loved Sir Rowland as his soul ,  And all the world was of my father’s mind . 	my father loved Sir Rowland as much as he loved his own soul ,  and the rest of the world shared my father’s opinion . 
had I before known this young man his son ,  I should have given him tears unto entreaties Ere he should thus have ventured . 	If I had known this young man was his son ,  I would have tried harder to convince him not to fight . 
gentle cousin ,  Let us go thank him and encourage him . 	gentle cousin ,  let’s go thank him and encourage him . 
shall we go ,  coz ? 	yes . 
ay . —Fare you well ,  fair gentleman . 	good luck ,  fair gentleman . 
he calls us back . 	he’s calling us back . 
will you go ,  coz ? 	my  Will you come on ,  cousin ? 
have with you . 	I’m coming . 
fare you well . 	farewell . 
what passion hangs these weights upon my tongue ? 	what is this passion that ties up my tongue ? 
I cannot speak to her ,  yet she urged conference . 	I can’t speak to her ,  even though she asked me to . 
or Charles or something weaker masters thee . 	either Charles or some prettier thing has mastered you . 
good sir ,  I do in friendship counsel you To leave this place . 	good sir ,  as a friend ,  I advise you to leave this place . 
albeit you have deserved High commendation ,  true applause ,  and love ,  Yet such is now the duke’s condition That he misconsters all that you have done . 	although you deserve praise ,  applause ,  and love ,  right now the duke misconstrues everything you’ve done . 
the duke is humorous . 	the duke is temperamental . 
but I can tell you that of late this duke Hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece ,  Grounded upon no other argument But that the people praise her for her virtues And pity her for her good father’s sake; And ,  on my life ,  his malice 'gainst the lady Will suddenly break forth . 	but I will tell you that lately the duke has been displeased with his niece ,  and for no other reason than that people praise her virtues and pity her for her father’s sake . 
sir ,  fare you well . 	goodbye ,  sir . 
hereafter ,  in a better world than this ,  I shall desire more love and knowledge of you . 	later ,  in a better world than this ,  I’d love to get to know you . 
I rest much bounden to you . 	I’m indebted to you . 
fare you well . 	goodbye . 
thus must I from the smoke into the smother ,  From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother . 	out of the frying pan and into the fire—from a tyrant duke to a tyrant brother ! 
but heavenly Rosalind ! 	but ,  oh ,  heavenly Rosalind ! 
why ,  Rosalind ! 	what’s going on ,  Rosalind ? 
not one to throw at a dog . 	I don’t even have one to throw at a dog . 
no ,  thy words are too precious to be cast away upon curs . 	no ,  your words are too precious to be wasted on dogs . 
throw some of them at me . 	throw some of your words at me . 
then there were two cousins laid up ,  when the one should be lamed with reasons and the other mad without any . 	then there would be two cousins lying sick in bed: one hurt by reasons and the other gone crazy without any . 
but is all this for your father ? 	Is all of this about your father ? 
no ,  some of it is for my child’s father . 	no ,  some of it is about my child’s father . 
If we walk not in the trodden paths our very petticoats will catch them . 	If we walk on the well - worn paths ,  they won’t get caught in our petticoats . 
hem them away . 	cough them up . 
I would try ,  if I could cry  “ hem ”  and have him . 	I’d try it ,  if I could cry  “ hem ”  and have him . 
come ,  come ,  wrestle with thy affections . 	come on ,  take control of your feelings . 
oh ,  they take the part of a better wrestler than myself . 	but they’re siding with a better wrestler than myself . 
oh ,  a good wish upon you . 	oh ,  that’s a good wish ! 
the duke my father loved his father dearly . 	you’ll fight with him eventually ,  and  The duke ,  my father ,  loved his father very much . 
doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly ? 	does that necessarily mean you should love his son ? 
by this kind of chase I should hate him ,  for my father hated his father dearly . 	by that kind of logic ,  I should hate Orlando ,  since my father hates his father . 
yet I hate not Orlando . 	but I don’t hate Orlando . 
no ,  faith ,  hate him not ,  for my sake . 	no ,  please don’t hate him—for my sake . 
why should I not ? 	why shouldn’t I ? 
doth he not deserve well ? 	doesn’t he deserve it ? 
let me love him for that ,  and do you love him because I do . 	let me love him because he deserves it ,  and you can love him because I do . 
look ,  here comes the duke . 	look ,  here comes the duke . 
with his eyes full of anger . 	he looks angry . 
mistress ,  dispatch you with your safest haste ,  And get you from our court . 	madam ,  hurry as fast as you can get out of my court . 
me ,  uncle ? 	me ,  uncle ? 
you ,  cousin . 	you ,  niece . 
within these ten days if that thou beest found So near our public court as twenty miles ,  Thou diest for it . 	In ten days time ,  if you’re found within twenty miles of the court ,  you’ll die for it . 
I do beseech your Grace ,  Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me . 	please ,  your Grace ,  tell me what crime I have committed . 
If with myself I hold intelligence Or have acquaintance with mine own desires ,  If that I do not dream or be not frantic— As I do trust I am not—then ,  dear uncle ,  Never so much as in a thought unborn Did I offend your Highness . 	If I know my own thoughts and desires ,  and I’m not dreaming or crazy—which I’m sure I’m not—then ,  dear uncle ,  I’ve never had so much as a half - formed thought that would have offended you . 
thus do all traitors . 	all traitors protest like this . 
If their purgation did consist in words ,  They are as innocent as grace itself . 	If they could purge their guilt simply by saying that they were innocent ,  they’d all be as innocent as God Himself . 
let it suffice thee that I trust thee not . 	I don’t trust you . 
thou art thy father’s daughter . 	you are your father’s daughter . 
there’s enough . 	that’s enough . 
so was I when your Highness took his dukedom . 	I was his daughter when your Highness took my father’s dukedom . 
so was I when your Highness banished him . 	I was his daughter when you banished him . 
my father was no traitor . 	my father wasn’t a traitor . 
then ,  good my liege ,  mistake me not so much To think my poverty is treacherous . 	so ,  please ,  my lord ,  don’t assume that I’m treacherous just because I’m poor ,  with no titles to my name . 
dear sovereign ,  hear me speak . 	dear master ,  listen to me . 
ay ,  Celia ,  we stayed her for your sake . 	yes ,  Celia ,  we kept her here for your sake . 
I was too young that time to value her ,  But now I know her . 	I was too young at the time to appreciate her value ,  but now I know her . 
If she be a traitor ,  Why so am I . 	If she’s a traitor ,  why then ,  so am I . 
thou art a fool . 	you’re a fool . 
she robs thee of thy name ,  And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous When she is gone . 	you will seem even brighter and more virtuous when she’s out of the picture . 
then open not thy lips . 	so be quiet . 
firm and irrevocable is my doom Which I have passed upon her . 	the sentence I’ve passed down on her is firm and unshakeable . 
she is banished . 	she is banished . 
pronounce that sentence then on me ,  my liege . 	then lay that sentence on me too ,  my lord . 
I cannot live out of her company . 	I cannot live without her . 
you are a fool . —You ,  niece ,  provide yourself . 	you are a fool . —You ,  niece ,  prepare to leave . 
If you outstay the time ,  upon mine honor And in the greatness of my word ,  you die . 	on my honor and by my word ,  if you outstay the ten days ,  you will die . 
o my poor Rosalind ,  whither wilt thou go ? 	oh ,  my poor Rosalind ,  where will you go ? 
wilt thou change fathers ? 	do you want to exchange fathers ? 
I will give thee mine . 	I’ll give you mine . 
I charge thee ,  be not thou more grieved than I am . 	I insist ,  don’t be more distressed than I am . 
I have more cause . 	I have more reason to be distressed . 
now ,  sir ,  what make you here ? 	hey ,  you ! 
nothing . 	what are you  Nothing . 
I am not taught to make anything . 	I’ve never been taught how to make anything . 
what mar you then ,  sir ? 	well ,  then ,  what are you messing up ? 
marry ,  sir ,  be better employed ,  and be naught awhile . 	I’m helping  Indeed ,  sir ,  find something better to do and get lost for a while . 
shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them ? 	should I tend your pigs and eat husks with them ? 
know you where you are ,  sir ? 	when did I  Do you know where you are ,  sir ? 
o sir ,  very well: here in your orchard . 	yes ,  sir ,  very well—I’m here in your orchard . 
know you before whom ,  sir ? 	do you know whom you’re talking to ? 
ay ,  better than him I am before knows me . 	yes ,  better than you know me . 
I know you are my eldest brother ,  and in the gentle condition of blood you should so know me . 	I know you’re my oldest brother ,  and deserve more respect . 
I have as much of my father in me as you ,  albeit ,  I confess ,  your coming before me is nearer to his reverence . 	I have as much of our father in me as you do ,  though I admit you’re closer to him and matter more because you’re older . 
thou hast not ,  cousin . 	no you haven’t ,  cousin . 
prithee ,  be cheerful . 	please ,  be cheerful . 
know’st thou not the duke Hath banished me ,  his daughter ? 	don’t you realize the duke has also banished me ,  his daughter ? 
that he hath not . 	no ,  he hasn’t . 
no ,  hath not ? 	oh ,  he hasn’t ? 
rosalind lacks then the love Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one . 	well ,  then ,  you don’t have the affection that would teach you that you and I are one . 
shall we be sundered ? 	will we be separated ? 
shall we part ,  sweet girl ? 	should we part ,  sweet girl ? 
for ,  by this heaven ,  now at our sorrows pale ,  Say what thou canst ,  I’ll go along with thee . 	I swear by the heavens ,  which have grown pale in sympathy with us ,  I’m going with you ,  whatever you say . 
why ,  whither shall we go ? 	but where will we go ? 
to seek my uncle in the Forest of Arden . 	to the Forest of Arden ,  to find your father . 
alas ,  what danger will it be to us ,  Maids as we are ,  to travel forth so far ? 	but what danger we’ll put ourselves in ,  two young ,  innocent women traveling so far ! 
beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold . 	fresh beauty attracts thugs and thieves even more than money . 
I’ll put myself in poor and mean attire And with a kind of umber smirch my face . 	I’ll put on some poor and ragged clothes and smudge my face with dirt . 
were it not better ,  Because that I am more than common tall ,  That I did suit me all points like a man ? 	wouldn’t it be better—since I’m unusually tall for a woman—to dress myself like a man ? 
a gallant curtal - axe upon my thigh ,  A boar - spear in my hand ,  and in my heart Lie there what hidden woman’s fear there will ,  We’ll have a swashing and a martial outside— As many other mannish cowards have That do outface it with their semblances . 	I’ll wear a big sword in my belt ,  carry a boar - spear in my hand ,  and hide all my womanish fear in my heart . 
what shall I call thee when thou art a man ? 	what should I call you when you’re a man ? 
I’ll have no worse a name than Jove’s own page ,  And therefore look you call me Ganymede . 	I’ll take no lesser name than that of  Something that refers to my current state . 
but what will you be called ? 	Instead of Celia ,  call me Aliena . 
would he not be a comfort to our travel ? 	wouldn’t he be a comfort to us in our travels ? 
leave me alone to woo him . 	let’s go gather our jewels and money . 
let’s away And get our jewels and our wealth together ,  Devise the fittest time and safest way To hide us from pursuit that will be made After my flight . 	we’ll figure out the best time and safest route to avoid being found out by my father’s guards ,  whom he’ll send out as soon as he discovers I’ve gone . 
now go we in content To liberty ,  and not to banishment . 	now ,  we go contentedly to freedom—not banishment . 
now ,  my co - mates and brothers in exile ,  Hath not old custom made this life more sweet Than that of painted pomp ? 	now ,  my companions and brothers in exile ,  hasn’t experience made this simple life sweeter than a life of glittery pomp and circumstance ? 
are not these woods More free from peril than the envious court ? 	aren’t these woods less perilous than the court ,  with all its jealousies and intrigues ? 
these are counselors That feelingly persuade me what I am .  ”  Sweet are the uses of adversity ,  Which ,  like the toad ,  ugly and venomous ,  Wears yet a precious jewel in his head . 	I smile and think ,   “ Thank goodness the wind doesn’t flatter me: it’s like a councilor who makes me feel what I’m really made of .  ”  Adversity can have its benefits—like the ugly ,  poisonous  I wouldn’t change my situation for anything . 
and this our life ,  exempt from public haunt ,  Finds tongues in trees ,  books in the running brooks ,  Sermons in stones ,  and good in everything . 	you’re lucky ,  my lord ,  to be able to see the peace and sweetness even in what bad luck has brought you . 
I would not change it . 	come ,  shall we hunt some deer for dinner ? 
happy is your Grace ,  That can translate the stubbornness of fortune Into so quiet and so sweet a style . 	It bothers me ,  though ,  that these poor spotted innocents ,  who ,  after all ,  are this deserted city’s native citizens ,  should be gouged with arrows . 
come ,  shall we go and kill us venison ? 	Indeed ,  my lord ,  the gloomy Jaques grieves over these deaths . 
and indeed ,  my lord ,  The wretched animal heaved forth such groans That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat Almost to bursting ,  and the big round tears Coursed one another down his innocent nose In piteous chase . 	big ,  round tears ran piteously down the animal’s innocent nose . 
and did you leave him in this contemplation ? 	and did you leave him like this ? 
we did ,  my lord ,  weeping and commenting Upon the sobbing deer . 	we did ,  my lord ,  weeping and carrying on about the sobbing deer . 
show me the place . 	take me to him . 
I love to cope him in these sullen fits ,  For then he’s full of matter . 	I love to argue with him when he’s having one of these fits ,  because then he always has a lot to say . 
I’ll bring you to him straight . 	I’ll bring you to him right away . 
can it be possible that no man saw them ? 	can it be possible that no one saw them leave ? 
It cannot be . 	It cannot be . 
some villains of my court Are of consent and sufferance in this . 	some villains in my court must have known about this and let it happen . 
I cannot hear of any that did see her . 	I can’t find anyone who saw her leave . 
the ladies ,  her attendants of her chamber Saw her abed ,  and in the morning early They found the bed untreasured of their mistress . 	her ladies - in - waiting saw her go to bed ,  and early this morning the bed was empty . 
my lord ,  the roinish clown ,  at whom so oft Your Grace was wont to laugh ,  is also missing . 	my lord ,  that dirty clown whom you laughed at so often is also missing . 
send to his brother . 	send a message to his brother . 
fetch that gallant hither . 	bring that swinger Orlando here . 
If he be absent ,  bring his brother to me . 	If he’s not around ,  bring his brother Oliver to me . 
I’ll make him find him . 	I’ll make Oliver find him . 
do this suddenly ,  And let not search and inquisition quail To bring again these foolish runaways . 	do this immediately ,  and don’t stop searching and interrogating until you’ve brought home these foolish runaways . 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
why ,  what make you here ? 	what are you doing here ? 
why are you virtuous ? 	why are you so strong and good ? 
why do people love you ? 	why do people love you ? 
and wherefore are you gentle ,  strong ,  and valiant ? 	and why are you noble ,  strong ,  and brave ? 
why would you be so fond to overcome The bonny prizer of the humorous duke ? 	why would you be so foolish as to beat the moody duke’s favorite champion ? 
your praise is come too swiftly home before you . 	your praise has beaten you home . 
know you not ,  master ,  to some kind of men Their graces serve them but as enemies ? 	don’t you know ,  master ,  that some men’s best qualities do them in ? 
oh ,  what a world is this when what is comely Envenoms him that bears it ! 	oh ,  what a world this is ,  when even what is beautiful in a man poisons him ! 
why ,  what’s the matter ? 	why ,  what’s the matter ? 
within this roof The enemy of all your graces lives . 	In this house lives a man who despises all that is good in you . 
your brother—no ,  no brother—yet the son— Yet not the son ,  I will not call him son— Of him I was about to call his father Hath heard your praises ,  and this night he means To burn the lodging where you use to lie ,  And you within it . 	oliver ,  your brother—no ,  not your brother; and yet he’s the son—but no ,  I won’t call him the son—of that great man I was about to call his father ,  has heard about how well you did in the wrestling match ,  and tonight he’s planning on burning your house down ,  with you in it . 
If he fail of that ,  He will have other means to cut you off . 	and if he fails at that ,  he will find other ways to kill you . 
I overheard him and his practices . 	I overheard him and his plans . 
this is no place ,  this house is but a butchery . 	this is no place for you; this home is now a slaughterhouse . 
abhor it ,  fear it ,  do not enter it . 	hate it ,  fear it ,  do not come inside . 
why ,  whither ,  Adam ,  wouldst thou have me go ? 	then where would you have me go ,  Adam ? 
no matter whither ,  so you come not here . 	It doesn’t matter where ,  so long as it’s not here . 
what ,  wouldst thou have me go and beg my food ,  Or with a base and boist'rous sword enforce A thievish living on the common road ? 	what ,  would you have me beg for my food ? 
yet this I will not do ,  do how I can . 	this is all that’s left for me to do ,  but I won’t do it . 
I rather will subject me to the malice Of a diverted blood and bloody brother . 	I’d rather give myself up to the hatred of a violent brother who refuses to recognize that we are brothers . 
but do not so . 	but don’t do that . 
let me be your servant . 	let me be your servant . 
though I look old ,  yet I am strong and lusty ,  For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo The means of weakness and debility . 	I know I may be old ,  but I’m strong and healthy ,  because in my youth I never drank nor lived recklessly . 
therefore my age is as a lusty winter ,  Frosty but kindly . 	therefore ,  my old age is like a blustery winter: cold ,  but kindly . 
let me go with you . 	let me go with you . 
I’ll do the service of a younger man In all your business and necessities . 	I’ll do everything a younger man could do for you . 
o good old man ,  how well in thee appears The constant service of the antique world ,  When service sweat for duty ,  not for meed . 	oh ,  good old man ,  you’re a great example of that old work ethic ,  where people worked because it was their duty ,  not just for the money . 
but come thy ways . 	come along ,  though . 
we’ll go along together ,  And ere we have thy youthful wages spent ,  We’ll light upon some settled low content . 	we’ll go together ,  and before we’ve spent all the savings of your youth ,  we’ll find a way to make a living . 
master ,  go on ,  and I will follow thee To the last gasp ,  with truth and loyalty . 	go on ,  master ,  and I will follow you—with truth and loyalty to my last breath . 
from seventeen years till now almost fourscore Here livèd I ,  but now live here no more . 	from the time I was seventeen ,  over sixty years ago ,  I have lived in this house ,  but now I will live here no more . 
at seventeen years ,  many their fortunes seek ,  But at fourscore ,  it is too late a week . 	many men seek their fortune at seventeen; at eighty ,  it’s a bit late . 
yet fortune cannot recompense me better Than to die well ,  and not my master’s debtor . 	but fortune could not reward me better than to let me die well ,  without owing my master anything . 
o Jupiter ,  how weary are my spirits ! 	oh Lord ,  my spirits are tired ! 
I care not for my spirits ,  if my legs were not weary . 	I wouldn’t care about my spirits ,  if my legs weren’t tired . 
I cannot go no further . 	I can’t go any further . 
for my part ,  I had rather bear with you than bear you . 	I’d rather bear with you than  Well ,  this is the Forest of Arden . 
ay ,  now am I in Arden ,  the more fool I . 	yes ,  now I’m in Arden ,  and that makes me the bigger fool . 
ay ,  be so ,  good Touchstone . 	yes ,  be content ,  good Touchstone . 
look you who comes here ,  a young man and an old in solemn talk . 	look who’s coming: a young man and an old man ,  having a serious talk . 
wilt thou lay hands on me ,  villain ? 	what ,  you dare put your hands on me ,  villain ? 
I am no villain . 	I’m no villain . 
wert thou not my brother ,  I would not take this hand from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy tongue for saying so . 	If you weren’t my brother ,  I’d leave this hand of mine on your neck until I’d pulled out your tongue for talking like this . 
thou hast railed on thyself . 	you’ve only insulted yourself . 
sweet masters ,  be patient . 	gentlemen ,  calm down . 
for your father’s remembrance ,  be at accord . 	for the sake of your father’s memory ,  make peace . 
let me go ,  I say . 	let me go ,  I say . 
I will not till I please . 	I won’t until I’m ready . 
you shall hear me . 	you will listen to me . 
my father charged you in his will to give me good education . 	my father instructed you in his will to give me a good education . 
you have trained me like a peasant ,  obscuring and hiding from me all gentlemanlike qualities . 	but you’ve raised me as a peasant ,  hiding from me what I needed to become a gentleman . 
the spirit of my father grows strong in me ,  and I will no longer endure it . 	my father’s spirit is growing in me ,  and I won’t take this any longer . 
and what wilt thou do—beg when that is spent ? 	and what are you going to do after you’ve spent your money ? 
well ,  sir ,  get you in . 	well ,  sir ,  go inside . 
I will not long be troubled with you . 	I’m not going to be bothered by you for long . 
you shall have some part of your will . 	you’ll get some of what you want . 
I pray you leave me . 	now please leave me alone . 
that is the way to make her scorn you still . 	what you’re doing is the way to make her scorn you continually . 
o Corin ,  that thou knew’st how I do love her ! 	oh ,  Corin ,  I wish you could understand how much I love her ! 
I partly guess ,  for I have loved ere now . 	I’m sure I can guess . 
no ,  Corin ,  being old ,  thou canst not guess ,  Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover As ever sighed upon a midnight pillow . 	no Corin ,  since you’re old ,  you cannot guess—even if you were as dedicated a lover in your youth as there ever was ,  sighing and mooning all night long . 
but if thy love were ever like to mine— As sure I think did never man love so— How many actions most ridiculous Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy ? 	If your love was anything like mine—and I’m sure that no man has loved as I love now—exactly how many ridiculous actions did your fantasizing lead you to ? 
Into a thousand that I have forgotten . 	oh ,  a thousand of them ,  all of which I’ve forgotten . 
oh ,  thou didst then ne'er love so heartily . 	oh ,  then you never loved as wholeheartedly as me . 
If thou rememb’rest not the slightest folly That ever love did make thee run into ,  Thou hast not loved . 	If you can’t remember the stupidest little thing love made you do ,  you haven’t loved . 
or if thou hast not sat as I do now ,  Wearying thy hearer in thy mistress’s praise ,  Thou hast not loved . 	or if you haven’t sat as I do now ,  boring your listener with all your lover’s virtues ,  then you haven’t loved . 
or if thou hast not broke from company Abruptly ,  as my passion now makes me ,  Thou hast not loved . 	or if you haven’t broken away from human company ,  as my feelings now lead me to do ,  you haven’t loved . 
o Phoebe ,  Phoebe ,  Phoebe ! 	o Phoebe ,  Phoebe ,  Phoebe ! 
alas ,  poor shepherd ,  searching of thy wound ,  I have by hard adventure found mine own . 	oh ,  poor shepherd ! 
and I mine . 	me too . 
I remember when I was in love I broke my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for coming a -  night to Jane Smile . 	I remember when I was in love ,  I broke my sword on a stone ,  and told him to take that for coming at night to see Jane Smile . 
and I remember the kissing of her batler ,  and the cow’s dugs that her pretty chopped hands had milked . 	I remember kissing her washing stick and the cow’s udders that her pretty ,  chapped hands had milked . 
and I remember the wooing of a peascod instead of her ,  from whom I took two cods and ,  giving her them again ,  said with weeping tears ,   “ Wear these for my sake .  ”  We that are true lovers run into strange capers . 	I remember wooing a pea plant in her name ,  and then taking two pea pods and begging her to wear them  “ for my sake .  ”  Those of us who are really in love will do the strangest things . 
but as all is mortal in nature ,  so is all nature in love mortal in folly . 	but everything that lives is mortal ,  including the foolishness of love . 
thou speak’st wiser than thou art ware of . 	you speak more wisely than you know . 
nay ,  I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I break my shins against it . 	nah ,  I’ll never be aware of my own wit ,  until I break my shins on it . 
jove ,  Jove ,  this shepherd’s passion Is much upon my fashion . 	by God ! 
and mine ,  but it grows something stale with me . 	and like mine ,  but I’m getting a little tired of it . 
I pray you ,  one of you question yond man ,  if he for gold will give us any food . 	please ,  one of you go ask that man over there if we can buy some food off him . 
peace ,  fool . 	shut up ,  fool . 
he’s not thy kinsman . 	he’s not your relative . 
who calls ? 	who’s calling ? 
your betters ,  sir . 	your superiors . 
I prithee ,  shepherd ,  if that love or gold Can in this desert place buy entertainment ,  Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed . 	please sir ,  if love or money can buy anything in this empty place ,  tell us where we can rest and feed ourselves . 
fair sir ,  I pity her And wish ,  for her sake more than for mine own ,  My fortunes were more able to relieve her . 	dear sir ,  I pity the lady and wish—more for her sake than my own—that I was more able to help her . 
but I am shepherd to another man And do not shear the fleeces that I graze . 	but I’m a hired hand: I don’t profit from the flocks I tend . 
besides ,  his cote ,  his flocks ,  and bounds of feed Are now on sale ,  and at our sheepcote now ,  By reason of his absence ,  there is nothing That you will feed on . 	besides ,  his cottage ,  his flocks ,  and his grazing rights are on sale now ,  and since he’s not there ,  there’s nothing to eat at our house . 
what is he that shall buy his flock and pasture ? 	who wants to buy the flock and the pasture ? 
that young swain that you saw here but erewhile ,  That little cares for buying anything . 	that young man who was just here . 
I pray thee ,  if it stand with honesty ,  Buy thou the cottage ,  pasture ,  and the flock ,  And thou shalt have to pay for it of us . 	please ,  if you can do it without taking advantage of the young man ,  buy the cottage ,  pasture ,  and flock for us ,  and we’ll pay you for it . 
and we will mend thy wages . 	and we will raise your wages . 
assuredly the thing is to be sold . 	the thing is definitely going to be sold . 
go with me . 	come with me . 
If you like upon report The soil ,  the profit ,  and this kind of life ,  I will your very faithful feeder be And buy it with your gold right suddenly . 	If you like what you see of the land ,  the profit that’s possible ,  and this rustic life ,  I’ll be your faithful servant ,  and buy the place with your gold right away . 
more ,  more ,  I prithee ,  more . 	more ,  more ,  please ,  more . 
It will make you melancholy ,  Monsieur Jaques . 	It’s only going to make you sad ,  Monsieur Jaques . 
I thank it . 	I’m glad about that . 
more ,  I prithee ,  more . 	more ,  please ,  more . 
I can suck melancholy out of a song as a weasel sucks eggs . 	I can suck sadness out of a song the way a weasel sucks eggs . 
more ,  I prithee ,  more . 	more ,  please ,  more . 
my voice is ragged . 	my voice is ragged . 
I know I cannot please you . 	I know I won’t please you . 
come ,  more ,  another stanzo . 	come on ,  another stanza—is that what you call 'em ,   “ stanzas ”  ? 
nay ,  I care not for their names . 	nah ,  I don’t care what their
well then ,  if ever I thank any man ,  I’ll thank you . 	well then ,  if I’ve ever thanked a man ,  I’ll thank you now . 
but that they call  “ compliment ”  is like th' encounter of two dog -  apes . 	but two men complimenting each other is like two baboons getting together . 
well ,  I’ll end the song . —Sirs ,  cover the while; the duke will drink under this tree . —He hath been all this day to look you . 	the duke will drink under this tree . —He’s been looking for you all day ,  you know . 
and I have been all this day to avoid him . 	and I’ve been avoiding him all day . 
he is too disputable for my company . 	he’s too argumentative for me . 
I think of as many matters as he ,  but I give heaven thanks and make no boast of them . 	I think of as many things as he does ,  but I just thank heaven and don’t show off about it . 
come ,  warble ,  come . 	come ,  warble for me . 
I’ll give you a verse to this note that I made yesterday in despite of my invention . 	I wrote a verse to this tune ,  though it’s not very imaginative . 
dear master ,  I can go no further . 	dear master ,  I can’t go any farther . 
oh ,  I die for food . 	oh ,  I’m dying of hunger . 
here lie I down and measure out my grave . 	I’ll lie down here and measure out my grave . 
farewell ,  kind master . 	farewell ,  kind master . 
why ,  how now ,  Adam ? 	hey ,  what’s this ,  Adam ? 
no greater heart in thee ? 	no braver than this ? 
live a little ,  comfort a little ,  cheer thyself a little . 	live a little ,  be comforted a little ,  cheer up a little . 
If this uncouth forest yield anything savage ,  I will either be food for it or bring it for food to thee . 	If I can find any animal in this wild forest ,  I’ll either be food for it or bring it as food for you . 
thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers . 	you’re not as close to death as you think you are . 
I will here be with thee presently ,  and if I bring thee not something to eat ,  I will give thee leave to die . 	I’ll be back soon ,  and if I haven’t brought you anything to eat ,  I will give you permission to die . 
but if thou diest before I come ,  thou art a mocker of my labor . 	but if you die before I return ,  you’ll have made a mockery of my efforts . 
well said . 	there we go ! 
thou look’st cheerly ,  and I’ll be with thee quickly . 	you look happier already ,  and I’ll be back quickly . 
yet thou liest in the bleak air . 	but you’re lying out in the cold . 
cheerly ,  good Adam . 	cheer up ,  good Adam . 
I think he be transformed into a beast ,  For I can nowhere find him like a man . 	I think he must have turned into an animal ,  because I can’t find him anywhere looking like a man . 
my lord ,  he is but even now gone hence . 	my lord ,  he just left here . 
here was he merry ,  hearing of a song . 	he was happy here ,  listening to a song . 
If he ,  compact of jars ,  grow musical ,  We shall have shortly discord in the spheres . 	If that man ,  who’s made up of conflicts ,  becomes musical ,  then there must be something wrong with the universe . 
go seek him . 	go find him . 
tell him I would speak with him . 	tell him I want to speak with him . 
he saves my labor by his own approach . 	he saved me the trouble: here he comes . 
why ,  how now ,  monsieur ? 	well ,  what’s going on ,  mister ? 
what a life is this That your poor friends must woo your company ? 	what kind of life do you lead that your poor friends must beg for your company ? 
what ,  you look merrily . 	what ,  you look amused . 
and then he drew a dial from his poke And ,  looking on it with lackluster eye ,  Says very wisely ,   “ It is ten o'clock . 	then he pulled a watch from his bag and ,  looking at it solemnly ,  said ,   “ It’s ten o'clock . 
thus we may see ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ how the world wags . 	this way ,  we can see how the world moves . 
tis but an hour ago since it was nine ,  And after one hour more ’twill be eleven . 	only an hour ago it was nine ,  and in another hour it will be eleven . 
o noble fool ! 	oh ,  noble fool ! 
a worthy fool ! 	a worthy fool ! 
motley’s the only wear . 	motley is the only thing to wear . 
what fool is this ? 	who is this fool ? 
oh ,  that I were a fool ! 	a worthy fool ! 
god be with my old master . 	god bless my old master . 
he would not have spoke such a word . 	he would never have spoken to me like this . 
Is it even so ? 	Is that how it’s going to be ? 
begin you to grow upon me ? 	are you starting to challenge me ? 
I will physic your rankness and yet give no thousand crowns neither . —Holla ,  Dennis ! 	I’ll cure you of your insolence ,  and I’m not going to give you a thousand crowns ,  either ! —Hey ,  Dennis ! 
calls your Worship ? 	did you call for me ,  your Worship ? 
was not Charles ,  the duke’s wrestler ,  here to speak with me ? 	wasn’t Charles ,  the duke’s wrestler ,  here to speak with me ? 
so please you ,  he is here at the door and importunes access to you . 	yes ,  sir ,  he’s here at the door right now and asks to see you . 
call him in . 	call him in . 
twill be a good way ,  and tomorrow the wrestling is . 	I have a good plan . 
I must have liberty Withal ,  as large a charter as the wind ,  To blow on whom I please ,  for so fools have . 	like the wind ,  I must have the freedom to blast anyone I please ,  as fools do . 
and they that are most gallèd with my folly ,  They most must laugh . 	and whoever is most irritated by my foolishness has to laugh the hardest . 
and why ,  sir ,  must they so ? 	why ,  sir ,  must he ? 
the  “ why ”  is plain as way to parish church: He that a fool doth very wisely hit Doth very foolishly ,  although he smart ,  Not to seem senseless of the bob . 	well ,  it’s as plain as the beaten path to a parish church . 
Invest me in my motley . 	dress me up in motley . 
give me leave To speak my mind ,  and I will through and through Cleanse the foul body of th' infected world ,  If they will patiently receive my medicine . 	let me speak my mind ,  and I’ll rid the world of its sickness—if it will only tolerate my medicine . 
fie on thee ! 	to hell with you ! 
I can tell what thou wouldst do . 	I know what you’d do . 
what ,  for a counter ,  would I do but good ? 	what would I do besides good ? 
most mischievous foul sin in chiding sin ,  For thou thyself hast been a libertine ,  As sensual as the brutish sting itself ,  And all th' embossèd sores and headed evils That thou with license of free foot hast caught Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world . 	you would be committing a wicked sin by chiding other people for sinning ,  because you yourself have been a terrible sinner ,  as carnal in your appetites as lust itself ,  and all the swollen pustules of sin that you acquired in your freedom you now want to burst and shoot back into the world at large . 
who can come in and say that I mean her ,  When such a one as she such is her neighbor ? 	who can say I mean just her when all her neighbors are exactly like her ? 
forbear ,  and eat no more . 	and when some lowlife protests that  Stop ,  and eat no more . 
why ,  I have eat none yet . 	but I haven’t eaten anything yet . 
nor shalt not till necessity be served . 	and you won’t until the needy eat . 
of what kind should this cock come of ? 	what kind of fighting cock is this ? 
art thou thus boldened ,  man ,  by thy distress Or else a rude despiser of good manners ,  That in civility thou seem’st so empty ? 	are you acting so boldly from hardship or because you despise good manners ? 
you touched my vein at first . 	you were right the first time . 
but forbear ,  I say . 	but stop ,  I say . 
an you will not be answered with reason ,  I must die . 	If you won’t listen to reason ,  I’ll have to die . 
what would you have ? 	what would you like ? 
your gentleness shall force More than your force move us to gentleness . 	gentlemanly manners have more sway around here than force does . 
I almost die for food ,  and let me have it . 	I’m dying for food ,  so let me have some . 
sit down and feed ,  and welcome to our table . 	sit down and eat ,  and welcome to our table . 
speak you so gently ? 	do you really speak like such a gentleman ? 
pardon me ,  I pray you . 	I beg your pardon . 
I thought that all things had been savage here ,  And therefore put I on the countenance Of stern commandment . 	I thought everything out here was wild ,  which is why I acted so stern and commanding . 
true is it that we have seen better days And have with holy bell been knolled to church ,  And sat at good men’s feasts and wiped our eyes Of drops that sacred pity hath engendered . 	we have in fact seen better days and been summoned to church by the ringing of the holy bell and sat at good men’s feasts and cried tears of pity—therefore ,  sit down and take whatever will satisfy your needs . 
then but forbear your food a little while Whiles ,  like a doe ,  I go to find my fawn And give it food . 	then please ,  put off your eating for a little while I ,  like a mother doe ,  find my fawn and bring it food . 
there is an old poor man Who after me hath many a weary step Limped in pure love . 	there is a poor old man who ,  purely out of love ,  has limped after me for miles . 
I thank you; and be blessed for your good comfort . 	thank you ,  and God bless you for your hospitality . 
thou seest we are not all alone unhappy . 	you see ,  we’re not alone in our unhappiness . 
all the world’s a stage ,  And all the men and women merely players . 	the whole world is a stage ,  and all the men and women merely actors . 
they have their exits and their entrances ,  And one man in his time plays many parts ,  His acts being seven ages . 	they have their exits and their entrances ,  and in his lifetime a man will play many parts ,  his life separated into seven acts . 
at first the infant ,  Mewling and puking in the nurse’s arms . 	In the first act he is an infant ,  whimpering and puking in his nurse’s arms . 
then the whining schoolboy with his satchel And shining morning face ,  creeping like snail Unwillingly to school . 	then he’s the whining schoolboy ,  with a book bag and a bright ,  young face ,  creeping like a snail unwillingly to school . 
and then the justice ,  In fair round belly with good capon lined ,  With eyes severe and beard of formal cut ,  Full of wise saws and modern instances; And so he plays his part . 	he’s full of wise sayings and up - to - the - minute anecdotes: that’s the way he plays his part . 
welcome . 	welcome . 
set down your venerable burden ,  And let him feed . 	set the honorable old man down and let him eat . 
I thank you most for him . 	I thank you very much on his behalf . 
welcome . 	welcome . 
fall to . 	eat . 
I will not trouble you As yet to question you about your fortunes . — Give us some music ,  and ,  good cousin ,  sing . 	I won’t trouble you yet with questions about your situation . —Some music ,  please ,  and ,  good friend ,  sing . 
as if time were in debt . 	time’s not the one in debt . 
how fondly dost thou reason ! 	your logic is so foolish . 
bear it straight ,  And bring thy master home immediately . 	take it to your master and bring him home immediately . 
there’s not a man I meet but doth salute me As if I were their well - acquainted friend ,  And every one doth call me by my name . 	every person I meet greets me like an old friend ,  and every one of them knows my name . 
some tender money to me; some invite me; Some other give me thanks for kindnesses; Some offer me commodities to buy . 	some of them give me money ,  some invite me places ,  some thank me for the kind things I’ve done for them ,  some try to sell me things . 
even now a tailor called me in his shop And showed me silks that he had bought for me ,  And therewithal took measure of my body . 	just now a tailor showed me fabrics he bought especially for me and then started to take my measurements . 
sure ,  these are but imaginary wiles ,  And lapland sorcerers inhabit here . 	these are tricks of the imagination ,  and this place is filled with magicians . 
master ,  here’s The gold you sent me for . 	here’s the money you wanted ,  master . 
what Adam dost thou mean ? 	who’s this Adam you speak of ? 
not that Adam that kept the Paradise ,  but that Adam that keeps the prison; he that goes in the calf’s skin that was killed for the Prodigal; he that came behind you ,  sir ,  like an evil angel ,  and bid you forsake your liberty . 	not the Adam from the garden of Eden ,  but the Adam from the jailhouse . 
I understand thee not . 	I don’t know what you’re talking about . 
no ? 	no ? 
what ,  thou meanest an officer ? 	you mean an officer ? 
ay ,  sir ,  the sergeant of the band; he that brings any man to answer it that breaks his band; one that thinks a man always going to bed and says  “ God give you good rest .  ”   Well ,  sir ,  there rest in your foolery . 	yes ,  the leader of the team; the one that gets you if you can’t pay a debt; the one who assumes people are always going to bed and says to them ,   “ Have arrest .  ”  Well ,  sir ,  stop your joking there . 
Is there any ships put forth tonight ? 	are any ships leaving tonight ? 
may we be gone ? 	can we go ? 
why ,  sir ,  I brought you word an hour since that the bark  The fellow is distract ,  and so am I ,  And here we wander in illusions . 	why ,  sir ,  I told you an hour ago that the good ship  This fellow’s gone mad ,  and so have I .  We’re in some kind of dream world . 
some blessed power deliver us from hence ! 	please ,  somebody ,  get us out of here ! 
well met ,  well met ,  Master Antipholus . 	good to see you ,  Master Antipholus . 
I see ,  sir ,  you have found the goldsmith now . 	I see you’ve met with the jeweler . 
Is that the chain you promised me today ? 	Is that chain you’re wearing the one you promised to give to me ? 
satan ,  avoid ! 	get away from me ,  Satan ! 
I charge thee ,  tempt me not . 	don’t try to tempt me ! 
master ,  is this Mistress Satan ? 	master ,  is this Satan’s mistress ? 
It is the devil . 	she’s the devil . 
nay ,  she is worse; she is the devil’s dam ,  and here she comes in the habit of a light wench . 	no ,  she’s worse: she’s the devil’s mother ,  and she comes to us disguised as an easy wench . 
light is an effect of fire ,  and fire will burn: ergo ,  light wenches will burn . 	but fire also gives off light ,  and fire will burn you . 
your man and you are marvelous merry ,  sir . 	you and your servant are very funny ,  sir . 
will you go with me ? 	will you come with me ? 
we’ll mend our dinner here . 	can we finish our lunch ? 
master ,  if you do ,  expect spoon meat; or bespeak a long spoon . 	master ,  if you eat with her ,  bring really long silverware . 
why ,  Dromio ? 	why ,  Dromio ? 
I pray you ,  sir ,  my ring or else the chain . 	some  Now listen ,  either give me my ring or give me the necklace . 
I hope you do not mean to cheat me so . 	I hope you’re not trying to cheat me . 
avaunt ,  thou witch ! —Come ,  Dromio ,  let us go . 	come ,  Dromio ,  let’s go . 
mistress ,  that you know . 	mistress ,  you know about that . 
now ,  out of doubt Antipholus is mad; Else would he never so demean himself . 	antipholus has gone insane ,  no question about it . 
a ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats ,  And for the same he promised me a chain . 	he has a ring of mine ,  worth forty ducats ,  and he promised to give me a necklace in exchange for it . 
both one and other he denies me now . 	now he won’t give me either . 
the reason that I gather he is mad ,  Besides this present instance of his rage ,  Is a mad tale he told today at dinner Of his own doors being shut against his entrance . 	the reason I think he’s insane ,  besides the way he just acted ,  is that he told a senseless story over lunch about being locked out of his own house . 
belike his wife ,  acquainted with his fits ,  On purpose shut the doors against his way . 	his wife probably did it on purpose because she knows what kind of fits he’s having . 
my way is now to hie home to his house And tell his wife that ,  being lunatic ,  He rushed into my house and took perforce My ring away . 	I must go to his house and tell his wife that he came bursting into my place like a lunatic and stole my ring . 
this course I fittest choose ,  For forty ducats is too much to lose . 	It’s my best option: I can’t afford to lose forty ducats . 
five summers have I spent in farthest Greece ,  Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia ,  And ,  coasting homeward ,  came to Ephesus ,  Hopeless to find ,  yet loath to leave unsought Or that or any place that harbors men . 	I’ve spent five years in the remotest parts of Greece and roaming all over Asia . 
but though thou art adjudgèd to the death ,  And passèd sentence may not be recalled But to our honour’s great disparagement ,  Yet will I favor thee in what I can . 	however ,  I’ll do what I can for you . 
therefore ,  merchant ,  I’ll limit thee this day To seek thy life by beneficial help . 	I will allow you one day to look for help in Ephesus . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will . 
fear me not ,  man . 	don’t worry ,  man ,  I won’t try to escape . 
I tell you ,  ’twill sound harshly in her ears . 	I tell you ,  this will make her angry when she hears about it . 
here comes my man . 	here’s my servant . 
I think he brings the money . 	I think he’s got the money . 
how now ,  sir ? 	hello there ,  sir ! 
have you that I sent you for ? 	do you have what I told you to get ? 
here’s that ,  I warrant you ,  will pay them all . 	yes . 
but where’s the money ? 	but where’s the money ? 
why ,  sir ,  I gave the money for the rope . 	why ,  sir ,  I spent it on this rope . 
I’ll serve you ,  sir ,  five hundred at the rate . 	I can get you five hundred ropes for that price . 
to what end did I bid thee hie thee home ? 	why did I just send you home ? 
to a rope’s end ,  sir ,  and to that end am I returned . 	and here I am ,  with that piece . 
and to that end ,  sir ,  I will welcome you . 	and I’ll use that piece of rope to welcome you with . 
good sir ,  be patient . 	good sir ,  calm down . 
good now ,  hold thy tongue . 	hold your tongue . 
nay ,  rather persuade him to hold his hands . 	no ,  you should tell him to hold his hands ! 
I would I were senseless ,  sir ,  that I might not feel your blows . 	I wish I were senseless ,  sir ,  so that I wouldn’t feel your punches ! 
thou art sensible in nothing but blows ,  and so is an ass . 	the only thing you can sense are punches—just like an ass . 
I am an ass ,  indeed; you may prove it by my long ears . —I have served him from the hour of my nativity to this instant ,  and have nothing at his hands for my service but blows . 	I am an ass ,  indeed: you can tell by my long ears . 
nay ,  I bear it on my shoulders as a beggar wont her brat ,  and I think when he hath lamed me ,  I shall beg with it from door to door . 	I figure that once he’s crippled me ,  I’ll beg by showing off my beatings . 
come ,  go along . 	that’s enough . 
my wife is coming yonder . 	my wife’s coming . 
mistress ,   Wilt thou still talk ? 	mistress ,  think about your end—beware of your death ! 
how say you now ? 	ePHESUS Now what do you think ? 
Is not your husband mad ? 	your husband’s mad ,  isn’t he ? 
mark how he trembles in his ecstasy . 	he’s trembling in his fit ! 
I conjure thee by all the saints in heaven . 	I demand this in the name of all the saints in heaven . 
peace ,  doting wizard ,  peace . 	shut up ,  you doddering old wizard ! 
I am not mad . 	I’m not possessed ! 
o ,  that thou wert not ,  poor distressèd soul ! 	oh ,  I wish you weren’t ,  you poor ,  frightened soul . 
you minion ,  you ,  are these your customers ? 	listen ,  hussy—is this man one of your customers ? 
did this companion with the saffron face Revel and feast it at my house today Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut And I denied to enter in my house ? 	did this fool with the yellow face feast and celebrate in my house today while the guilty doors shut in my face and locked me out of my own house ? 
dined at home ”  ? 	ate at home ? 
thou villain ,  what sayest thou ? 	you there ,  rogue ,  what do you have to say about that ? 
sir ,  sooth to say ,  you did not dine at home . 	I swear ,  sir ,  you did not eat at home . 
were not my doors locked up and I shut out ? 	my doors were locked and I was shut out ,  right ? 
perdie ,  your doors were locked ,  and you shut out . 	by God ,  your doors were locked and you were shut out . 
and did not she herself revile me there ? 	and she screamed at me ,  right ? 
sans fable ,  she herself reviled you there . 	no lie—she screamed at you . 
did not her kitchen maid rail ,  taunt ,  and scorn me ? 	and her cook yelled ,  mocked ,  and teased me ,  right ? 
and did not I in rage depart from thence ? 	and I departed in a rage ,  right ? 
In verity you did . —My bones bear witness ,  That since have felt the vigour of his rage . 	you truly did . 
It is no shame . 	good idea . 
alas ,  I sent you money to redeem you By Dromio here ,  who came in haste for it . 	I gave it to Dromio ,  who rushed in for it . 
money by me ! 	you gave money to me ? 
went’st not thou to her for a purse of ducats ? 	didn’t you go to her for a purse full of ducats ? 
he came to me ,  and I delivered it . 	he did ,  and I gave it to him . 
and I am witness with her that she did . 	and I saw her do it . 
god and the rope - maker bear me witness That I was sent for nothing but a rope . 	I was sent for a rope ! 
mistress ,  both man and master is possessed . 	mistress ,  both the man and his master are possessed . 
I know it by their pale and deadly looks . 	I can tell by how pale and deathlike they look . 
they must be bound and laid in some dark room . 	we must tie them up and leave them in some dark room . 
I did not ,  gentle husband ,  lock thee forth . 	my sweet husband ,  I did not lock you out . 
and ,  gentle master ,  I received no gold . 	and my sweet master ,  I received no gold . 
but I confess ,  sir ,  that we were locked out . 	but I agree ,  sir ,  that we were locked out . 
let him not come near me . 	keep him away from me ! 
more company ! 	we need more help ! 
the fiend is strong within him . 	the devil in him is strong ! 
what ,  will you murder me ? —Thou jailer ,  thou ,  I am thy prisoner . 	jailer ,  i’m your prisoner . 
wilt thou suffer them To make a rescue ? 	are you going to let them break me out of jail ? 
masters ,  let him go . 	gentlemen ,  let go of him . 
he is my prisoner ,  and you shall not have him . 	he’s my prisoner and you can’t have him . 
go ,  bind this man ,  for he is frantic too . 	tie up the servant ,  for he is mad as well . 
he is my prisoner . 	he’s my prisoner . 
If I let him go ,  The debt he owes will be required of me . 	If I let him go ,  I’ll have to pay his bail fees myself . 
I will discharge thee ere I go from thee . 	I’ll pay you . 
bear me forthwith unto his creditor ,  And ,  knowing how the debt grows ,  I will pay it . — Good Master Doctor ,  see him safe conveyed Home to my house . 	take me to the man my husband is in debt to . 
o most unhappy day ! 	what a horrible day ! 
o most unhappy strumpet ! 	what a horrible slut ! 
master ,  I am here entered in bond for you . 	master ,  I’m all tied up for you . 
how idly do they talk ! 	the poor souls—how strangely they talk ! 
one Angelo ,  a goldsmith . 	angelo ,  the jeweler . 
do you know him ? 	do you know him ? 
I know the man . 	I know him . 
two hundred ducats . 	two hundred ducats . 
say ,  how grows it due ? 	for what ? 
due for a chain your husband had of him . 	for a necklace your husband had him make . 
he did bespeak a chain for me but had it not . 	he said he was going to buy me a necklace ,  but I never saw it . 
I long to know the truth hereof at large . 	I need to hear the truth about all this . 
god for Thy mercy ,  they are loose again ! 	god have mercy on us ! 
and come with naked swords . 	and they’ve got their swords unsheathed ! 
let’s call more help To have them bound again . 	let’s call for help and get them tied up again ! 
away ! 	let’s get out of here ! 
they’ll kill us . 	they’ll kill us ! 
I see these witches are afraid of swords . 	It looks like these witches are scared of swords . 
she that would be your wife now ran from you . 	the one who claims to be your wife just ran away from you . 
I long that we were safe and sound aboard . 	I wish we were safely on board our ship already . 
faith ,  stay here this night . 	look ,  let’s stay here tonight . 
they will surely do us no harm . 	nobody will hurt us . 
you saw they speak us fair ,  give us gold . 	you see how kind everyone is to us ,  how they just hand us gold . 
methinks they are such a gentle nation that ,  but for the mountain of mad flesh	I think this country is so kind that if it weren’t for
that claims marriage of me ,  i could find in my heart to stay here still ,  and turn witch . 	that mountain of insanity that wants to marry me ,  I could find it in my heart to stay here and become a witch myself . 
I will not stay tonight for all the town . 	I wouldn’t stay here tonight for the entire town . 
therefore away ,  to get our stuff aboard . 	go and get our stuff onto the ship . 
how is the man esteemed here in the city ? 	what’s this man’s reputation like here in the city ? 
his word might bear my wealth at any time . 	I’d trust him with everything I own . 
speak softly . 	you’re right . 
tis so; and that self chain about his neck Which he forswore most monstrously to have . 	and that necklace around his neck is the very one he swore he didn’t have ! 
good sir ,  draw near to me . 	good sir ,  stay close to me . 
therefore give out you are of Epidamnum ,  Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate . 	so ,  tell people that you’re from Epidamnum–otherwise all your goods will be confiscated . 
there is your money that I had to keep . 	here’s the money you asked me to hold . 
go bear it to the Centaur ,  where we host ,  And stay there ,  Dromio ,  till I come to thee . 	dromio ,  bring this money to the Centaur Inn ,  where we’re lodging ,  and wait there until I come . 
within this hour it will be dinnertime . 	It’ll be lunchtime within an hour . 
till that ,  I’ll view the manners of the town ,  Peruse the traders ,  gaze upon the buildings ,  And then return and sleep within mine inn ,  For with long travel I am stiff and weary . 	until then ,  I’ll walk around town ,  peruse the markets ,  and gaze upon the buildings ,  and then I’ll return and sleep at the inn . 
get thee away . 	get going now . 
many a man would take you at your word And go indeed ,  having so good a mean . 	many men would take you literally and take off with all this money . 
a trusty villain ,  sir ,  that very oft ,  When I am dull with care and melancholy ,  Lightens my humor with his merry jests . 	often ,  when I’m dulled by worry and melancholy ,  he lightens my mood with his merry pranks . 
what ,  will you walk with me about the town And then go to my inn and dine with me ? 	listen ,  will you walk with me around the town and then dine with me at the inn ? 
I think I had . 	but if
I never did deny it . 	I got it from you—I never said I didn’t . 
yes ,  that you did ,  sir ,  and forswore it too . 	yes ,  you did ,  sir . 
who heard me to deny it or forswear it ? 	who heard me do that ? 
these ears of mine ,  thou know’st did hear thee . 	my own ears heard it ,  and you know it . 
fie on thee ,  wretch . 	to hell with you ! 
tis pity that thou liv’st To walk where any honest men resort . 	It’s a shame that you walk the streets with all the honest men . 
thou art a villain to impeach me thus . 	you’re a villain to say this about me . 
I’ll prove mine honor and mine honesty Against thee presently if thou dar’st stand . 	I’ll prove that I’m an honest man and a man of honor if you dare defend yourself . 
I dare ,  and do defy thee for a villain . 	I do dare ,  and I say that you are the villain . 
run ,  master ,  run . 	run ,  master ,  run . 
for God’s sake ,  take a house . 	for God’s sake ,  find a house to duck into . 
this is some priory . 	this looks like an abbey . 
In ,  or we are spoiled . 	go in ,  or we’re done for . 
be quiet ,  people . 	be quiet ,  people ! 
wherefore throng you hither ? 	why have you come here in such a mob ? 
to fetch my poor distracted husband hence . 	to get my poor ,  mad husband out from inside there . 
let us come in ,  that we may bind him fast And bear him home for his recovery . 	let us in so we can tie him up tight and bring him home to recover . 
how long hath this possession held the man ? 	how long has he been possessed like this ? 
this week he hath been heavy ,  sour ,  sad ,  And much different from the man he was . 	this week he was sad ,  moody ,  and depressed and very different from his usual self . 
but till this afternoon his passion Ne'er brake into extremity of rage . 	but it wasn’t until this afternoon that he broke out into violence . 
hath not else his eye Stray’d his affection in unlawful love ,  A sin prevailing much in youthful men Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing ? 	that’s a sin young men often commit because they allow their eyes to wander . 
which of these sorrows is he subject to ? 	which of these bad things happened to him ? 
you should for that have reprehended him . 	you should have reprimanded him for that . 
why ,  so I did . 	I did . 
ay ,  but not rough enough . 	fine ,  but you weren’t harsh enough . 
haply in private . 	you scolded him in private ? 
and in assemblies too . 	and in public too . 
ay ,  but not enough . 	fine ,  but not enough . 
alone ,  it was the subject of my theme; In company I often glancèd it . 	he couldn’t eat without me talking about it . 
still did I tell him it was vile and bad . 	all I ever did was tell him how hurtful and bad it was . 
and thereof came it that the man was mad . 	and that’s why he went crazy . 
the venom clamors of a jealous woman Poisons more deadly than a mad dog’s tooth . 	a jealous woman’s poisonous ranting is worse than the bite of a rabid dog . 
thou sayst his meat was sauced with thy upbraidings . 	you seasoned his food with screams . 
thou sayest his sports were hinderd by thy brawls . 	fever ,  as we know ,  is a kind of madness . 
In food ,  in sport ,  and life - preserving rest To be disturbed ,  would mad or man or beast . 	ruining his meals ,  his enjoyment ,  and his sleep would drive any man or beast mad . 
the consequence is ,  then ,  thy jealous fits Have scared thy husband from the use of wits . 	what I’m saying is ,  your jealousy has pushed your husband away from his sanity . 
good people ,  enter and lay hold on him . 	gentlemen ,  go in there and grab him . 
then let your servants bring my husband forth . 	then have your servants bring him out . 
It is a branch and parcel of mine oath ,  A charitable duty of my order . 	healing is part and parcel of my religious vows; it is a charitable duty my order performs . 
therefore depart and leave him here with me . 	therefore ,  depart ,  and leave him here with me . 
be quiet and depart . 	be quiet and depart . 
thou shalt not have him . 	you’re not going to take him . 
complain unto the Duke of this indignity . 	go lodge a complaint about this with the duke . 
come ,  go . 	come with me . 
I will fall prostrate at his feet And never rise until my tears and prayers Have won his grace to come in person hither And take perforce my husband from the Abbess . 	I’ll fall at his feet and lie there until my pleading and crying convinces the duke to come here and force my husband to leave this abbey . 
by this ,  I think ,  the dial points at five . 	It’s almost five o'clock . 
to see a reverend Syracusian merchant ,  Who put unluckily into this bay Against the laws and statutes of this town ,  Beheaded publicly for his offense . 	to see an elderly ,  unlucky merchant from Syracuse publicly beheaded for breaking the law and coming here to Ephesus . 
see where they come . 	here they come . 
we will behold his death . 	we will watch the execution . 
kneel to the duke before he pass the abbey . 	kneel down to the duke before he passes by the abbey . 
yet once again proclaim it publicly ,  If any friend will pay the sum for him ,  He shall not die; so much we tender him . 	one more time ,  we proclaim this publicly: If anyone will pay this man’s bail ,  he will not be put to death . 
justice ,  most sacred duke ,  against the Abbess . 	duke ,  the abbess has wronged me and I seek justice . 
she is a virtuous and a reverend lady . 	she’s a virtuous and holy lady . 
It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong . 	she can’t possibly have done you any wrong . 
therefore ,  most gracious duke ,  with thy command Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help . 	so please ,  most gracious duke ,  order her to bring him out so we can get him some help . 
long since thy husband served me in my wars ,  And I to thee engaged a prince’s word ,  When thou didst make him master of thy bed ,  To do him all the grace and good I could . 	and when you married him and made him the master of your bed ,  I gave you my word that I would do everything I possibly could for him . 
peace ,  fool . 	shut up ,  fool ! 
thy master and his man are here ,  And that is false thou dost report to us . 	your master and his servant are here . 
mistress ,  upon my life I tell you true . 	mistress ,  I swear on my life that it’s true . 
I have not breathed almost since I did see it . 	It was just moments ago . 
he cries for you ,  and vows ,  if he can take you ,  To scorch your face and to disfigure you . 	he’s crying out for you and swears he’ll burn your face and disfigure you if he can get ahold of you . 
ay me ,  it is my husband . 	oh ,  my ,  it’s my husband . 
witness you That he is borne about invisible . 	look ,  he can become invisible . 
even now we housed him in the abbey here ,  And now he’s there ,  past thought of human reason . 	just now we put him in the abbey over here ,  and now he’s over there . 
even for the blood That then I lost for thee ,  now grant me justice . 	In exchange for the blood I shed for you then ,  I ask you for justice now . 
beyond imagination is the wrong That she this day hath shameless thrown on me . 	the things she has shamelessly hurled on me are beyond imagination . 
this day ,  great duke ,  she shut the doors upon me While she with harlots feasted in my house . 	today ,  great duke ,  she locked me out of my house and feasted there with whores . 
a grievous fault . —Say ,  woman ,  didst thou so ? 	that’s terrible ! 
no ,  my good lord . 	no ,  my good lord . 
myself ,  he ,  and my sister Today did dine together . 	I ate with him and my sister . 
so befall my soul As this is false he burdens me withal . 	damn my soul if these accusations are true ! 
ne'er may I look on day ,  nor sleep on night But she tells to your Highness simple truth . 	If she’s lying ,  I pray that I never sleep again at night or wake up during the day . 
o perjured woman ! 	oh ,  lying woman ! 
my liege ,  I am advisèd what I say ,  Neither disturbed with the effect of wine ,  Nor heady - rash ,  provoked with raging ire ,  Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad . 	my lord ,  I know what I’m saying . 
that goldsmith there ,  were he not packed with her ,  Could witness it ,  for he was with me then ,  Who parted with me to go fetch a chain ,  Promising to bring it to the Porpentine ,  Where Balthasar and I did dine together . 	he left to fetch a necklace and he promised to bring it to the Porcupine ,  where I was dining with Balthasar . 
our dinner done and he not coming thither ,  I went to seek him . 	he hadn’t arrived by the time we finished eating ,  so I went out looking for him . 
In the street I met him ,  And in his company that gentleman . 	I met him in the street—he was there with that man . 
by th' way we met My wife ,  her sister ,  and a rabble more Of vile confederates . 	on the way ,  we came across my wife ,  her sister ,  and their gang of vile associates . 
along with them They brought one Pinch ,  a hungry ,  lean - faced villain ,  A mere anatomy ,  a mountebank ,  A threadbare juggler ,  and a fortune - teller ,  A needy ,  hollow - eyed ,  sharp - looking wretch ,  A living dead man . 	one of them was a man named Pinch: a hungry ,  narrow - faced villain; a skeleton; a fraud; a raggedy magician and fortune - teller; a needy ,  hollow - eyed ,  emaciated wretch; a walking corpse . 
this pernicious slave ,  Forsooth ,  took on him as a conjurer ,  And ,  gazing in mine eyes ,  feeling my pulse , 	he pretended to be some kind of sorcerer ,  and he gazed in my eyes and took my pulse . 
but had he such a chain of thee or no ? 	they left me and my servant there ,  tied together . 
he had ,  my lord ,  and when he ran in here ,  These people saw the chain about his neck . 	he did ,  my lord . 
I never saw the chain ,  so help me heaven ,  And this is false you burden me withal . 	I never saw the necklace ,  so help me heaven ! 
why ,  what an intricate impeach is this ! 	why ,  what a complicated case this is ! 
soon at five o'clock ,  Please you ,  I’ll meet with you upon the mart And afterward consort you till bedtime . 	it pleases you ,  I’ll meet you in the marketplace at five and will keep you company until bedtime . 
my present business calls me from you now . 	right now ,  my pressing business calls me away . 
farewell till then . 	farewell till then . 
I will go lose myself And wander up and down to view the city . 	I will go lose myself ,  wandering up and down throughout the city . 
sir ,  I commend you to your own content . 	sir ,  I leave you to your own contentment . 
he that commends me to mine own content Commends me to the thing I cannot get . 	he leaves me to my own contentment ,  but that’s the one thing I cannot find . 
I to the world am like a drop of water That in the ocean seeks another drop ,  Who ,  falling there to find his fellow forth ,  Unseen ,  inquisitive ,  confounds himself . 	out in the world ,  I’m like a drop of water ,  trying to find a drop that matches in the whole wide ocean . 
so I ,  to find a mother and a brother ,  In quest of them ,  unhappy ,  lose myself . 	In order to find a mother and a brother ,  I too have lost myself ,  unhappily . 
how chance thou art returned so soon ? 	how is it that you’ve come back so soon ? 
returned so soon ? 	back so soon ? 
rather approach’d too late ! 	too late is more like it . 
the capon burns; the pig falls from the spit; The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell; My mistress made it one upon my cheek . 	the chicken is burning ,  the pig is overcooked ,  the clock has already struck twelve ,  and my mistress has clocked me one on the cheek . 
you say he dined at home; the goldsmith here Denies that saying . 	ate at home ,  but the jeweler says he didn’t . 
sir ,  he dined with her there ,  at the Porpentine . 	sir ,  he ate with this woman at the Porcupine . 
he did ,  and from my finger snatched that ring . 	he did ,  and he snatched my ring right off my finger . 
tis true ,  my liege; this ring I had of her . 	that’s true ,  my lord: I did get this ring from her . 
saw’st thou him enter at the abbey here ? 	did you see him enter this abbey ? 
as sure ,  my liege ,  as I do see your Grace . 	as clearly as I see you ,  my lord . 
I think you are all mated or stark mad . 	I think you’re all either bewildered or stark raving mad . 
most mighty duke ,  vouchsafe me speak a word . 	mighty duke ,  please allow me to say something . 
haply I see a friend will save my life And pay the sum that may deliver me . 	I think I see a friend who will pay my bail and save my life . 
within this hour I was his bondman sir ,  But he ,  I thank him ,  gnawed in two my cords . 	I was bound to him an hour ago ,  sir ,  but thankfully he chewed through our ropes . 
now am I Dromio ,  and his man ,  unbound . 	now I’m Dromio and no longer attached to him . 
I am sure you both of you remember me . 	I’m sure you both remember me . 
you are not Pinch’s patient ,  are you ,  sir ? 	you’re not one of Pinch’s patients ,  are you ,  sir ? 
why look you strange on me ? 	why are you looking at me so strangely ? 
you know me well . 	you know me well . 
I never saw you in my life till now . 	I never saw you before in my life . 
o ,  grief hath changed me since you saw me last ,  And careful hours with time’s deformèd hand Have written strange defeatures in my face . 	oh ,  grief has transformed me since the last time you saw me . 
but tell me yet ,  dost thou not know my voice ? 	but tell me this: don’t you know my voice ? 
neither . 	no . 
dromio ,  nor thou ? 	don’t you ,  Dromio ? 
no ,  trust me ,  sir ,  nor I .  I am sure thou dost . 	no sir ,  trust me ,  I do not . 
not know my voice ! 	you don’t know my voice ? 
o time’s extremity ,  Hast thou so crack’d and splitted my poor tongue In seven short years that here my only son Knows not my feeble key of untuned cares ? 	have you mangled my tongue so badly in these seven short years that my only son can no longer recognize my weak ,  sorrow - ravaged voice ? 
though now this grainèd face of mine be hid In sap - consuming winter’s drizzled snow ,  And all the conduits of my blood froze up ,  Yet hath my night of life some memory ,  My wasting lamps some fading glimmer left ,  My dull deaf ears a little use to hear . 	but I still have a little memory left ,  and there’s still some fire in my eyes; my dull ,  deaf ears can still hear a little . 
all these old witnesses—I cannot err— Tell me thou art my son Antipholus . 	all these aging faculties tell me—and I cannot be wrong—that you are my son ,  Antipholus . 
I never saw my father in my life . 	I never saw my father in my life . 
but seven years since ,  in Syracusa ,  boy ,  Thou know’st we parted . 	you know that we parted only seven years ago ,  in Syracuse . 
I see thy age and dangers make thee dote . 	your old age and the prospect of death are making you imagine things . 
most mighty duke ,  behold a man much wronged . 	mighty duke ,  look here and see a man who’s been treated most terribly ! 
I see two husbands ,  or mine eyes deceive me . 	either my eyes deceive me ,  or I see two husbands . 
I ,  sir ,  am Dromio . 	I ,  sir ,  am Dromio . 
command him away . 	command this man to leave . 
I ,  sir ,  am Dromio . 	I ,  sir ,  am Dromio . 
please ,  let me stay . 	pray ,  let me stay . 
o ,  my old master . —Who hath bound him here ? 	oh ,  my old master ! —Who tied him up ? 
whoever bound him ,  I will loose his bonds And gain a husband by his liberty . — Speak ,  old Egeon ,  if thou be’st the man That hadst a wife once called Emilia ,  That bore thee at a burden two fair sons . 	tell us ,  old Egeon: are you the man who once had a wife named Emilia ,  who gave birth to two fair sons ? 
o ,  if thou be’st the same Egeon ,  speak ,  And speak unto the same Emilia . 	oh ,  if you are the same Egeon ,  speak now ,  and speak to that same Emilia ! 
why ,  here begins his morning story right; These two Antipholuses ,  these two so like ,  And these two Dromios ,  one in semblance— Besides her urging of her wreck at sea— These are the parents to these children ,  Which accidentally are met together . 	these two Antipholuses ,  who look so alike—and these two Dromios ,  who seem to have the same face—and her story of being shipwrecked—why ,  these two are the parents of these children and have been reunited by accident . 
If I dream not ,  thou art Emilia . 	If I’m not dreaming ,  you are Emilia . 
If thou art she ,  tell me where is that son That floated with thee on the fatal raft ? 	If it’s really you ,  tell me what happened to our son ,  who floated away with you on that deadly raft . 
corinth first . 	antipholus ,  aren’t you originally from Corinth ? 
stay ,  stand apart . 	wait ,  don’t stand next to each other . 
I know not which is which . 	I can’t tell who’s who . 
I came from Corinth ,  my most gracious lord . 	I came from Corinth ,  Your Highness . 
and I with him . 	and I came with him . 
brought to this town by that most famous warrior Duke Menaphon ,  your most renownèd uncle . 	your renowned uncle ,  Duke Menaphon ,  the famous soldier ,  brought me here . 
which of you two did dine with me today ? 	which of you two ate lunch with me today ? 
I ,  gentle mistress . 	I did ,  kind lady . 
and are not you my husband ? 	and you’re my husband ,  right ? 
that is the chain ,  sir ,  which you had of me . 	that’s the necklace I gave you ,  sir . 
I think it be ,  sir . 	I think it is ,  sir . 
I deny it not . 	I don’t deny it . 
and you ,  sir ,  for this chain arrested me . 	and you ,  sir ,  had me arrested over that necklace . 
I think I did ,  sir . 	I think I did ,  sir . 
I deny it not . 	I don’t deny it . 
I sent you money ,  sir ,  to be your bail By Dromio ,  but I think he brought it not . 	I sent Dromio to you with money for bail ,  but I don’t think he brought it to you . 
no ,  none by me . 	no ,  he didn’t get any by me . 
this purse of ducats I received from you ,  And Dromio my man did bring them me . 	I got this purse full of money from you ,  and my Dromio brought it to me . 
these ducats pawn I for my father here . 	I want to use this money to set my father free . 
It shall not need . 	that’s not necessary . 
thy father hath his life . 	I’m going to let him live . 
sir ,  I must have that diamond from you . 	sir ,  I must get that diamond ring back from you . 
there ,  take it; and much thanks for my good cheer . 	there ,  take it ,  and thanks for taking such good care of me . 
renownèd duke ,  vouchsafe to take the pains To go with us into the abbey here And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes ,  And all that are assembled in this place That by this sympathizèd one day’s error Have suffered wrong . 	renowned duke ,  please join us in the abbey ,  where we will discuss at length all that has happened to us . 
go ,  keep us company ,  And we shall make full satisfaction . — Thirty - three years have I but gone in travail Of you ,  my sons ,  and till this present hour My heavy burden ne'er deliverèd . — The Duke ,  my husband ,  and my children both ,  And you ,  the calendars of their nativity ,  Go to a gossips' feast ,  and go with me . 	duke Solinus ,  my husband ,  and both my children—and you two Dromios ,  who marked the day of my sons' births with your own—come into the abbey with me for a new christening . 
after so long grief ,  such nativity ! 	after such a long period of grief ,  we will have such a celebration ! 
with all my heart I’ll gossip at this feast . 	with all my heart ,  I’ll join you . 
dromio ,  what stuff of mine hast thou embarked ? 	dromio ,  what stuff of mine did you put on a ship ? 
your goods that lay at host ,  sir ,  in the Centaur . 	the stuff you had at the Centaur ,  sir . 
he speaks to me . —I am your master ,  Dromio . 	I’m your master ,  Dromio . 
there is a fat friend at your master’s house That kitchened me for you today at dinner . 	you have a fat friend at your master’s house: she took care of me in the kitchen today ,  thinking I was you . 
she now shall be my sister ,  not my wife . 	I guess now she’s going to be my sister - in - law and not my wife . 
methinks you are my glass ,  and not my brother: I see by you I am a sweet - faced youth . 	I think you’re my mirror ,  not my brother . 
will you walk in to see their gossiping ? 	do you want to go in and join the party ? 
not I ,  sir . 	after you ,  sir . 
you are my elder . 	you’re older than me . 
that’s a question . 	that’s a good point . 
how shall we try it ? 	how can we tell which of us is the oldest ? 
we’ll draw cuts for the signior . 	we’ll draw straws . 
till then ,  lead thou first . 	meanwhile ,  after you . 
nay ,  then ,  thus: We came into the world like brother and brother ,  And now let’s go hand in hand ,  not one before another . 	we came into the world as brother and brother ,  so now let’s enter hand in hand—not one before the other . 
stop in your wind ,  sir . 	hold on a second . 
tell me this ,  I pray: Where have you left the money that I gave you ? 	answer me this ,  please: where’s the money I gave you ? 
o ,  sixpence ,  that I had o' Wednesday last To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper ? 	oh ,  the sixpence you gave me last Wednesday to buy leather goods for my mistress ? 
the saddler had it ,  sir; I kept it not . 	the saddle maker has it ,  sir—I didn’t keep it . 
I am not in a sportive humor now . 	I’m not in a joking mood . 
tell me ,  and dally not: where is the money ? 	tell me right now and stop fooling: where’s the money ? 
we being strangers here ,  how dar’st thou trust So great a charge from thine own custody ? 	we’re strangers here . 
I pray you ,  jest ,  sir ,  as you sit at dinner . 	please ,  sir; crack jokes over lunch . 
methinks your maw ,  like mine ,  should be your clock ,  And strike you home without a messenger . 	I should think that your appetite would act like a clock (as mine does) and bring you home on its own ,  without the need for a messenger . 
come ,  Dromio ,  come ,  these jests are out of season . 	that’s enough ,  Dromio ,  please . 
reserve them till a merrier hour than this . 	this isn’t a good moment for jokes—save them till a happier time . 
where is the gold I gave in charge to thee ? 	where’s the gold I gave you ? 
to me ,  sir ? 	gave me ,  sir ? 
why ,  you gave no gold to me ! 	you didn’t give me any gold . 
come on ,  sir knave ,  have done your foolishness ,  And tell me how thou hast disposed thy charge . 	tell me what you’ve done with the money I entrusted to you . 
my charge was but to fetch you from the mart Home to your house ,  the Phoenix ,  sir ,  to dinner . 	the only thing that I’ve been entrusted with was getting you from the market and bringing you to your house ,  the Phoenix ,  for lunch . 
my mistress and her sister stays for you . 	my mistress and her sister are waiting for you . 
now ,  as I am a Christian ,  answer me In what safe place you have bestowed my money ,  Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours That stands on tricks when I am undisposed . 	tell me where you’ve stowed away my money ,  or I swear I’ll break that comical head of yours for goofing when I’m not in the mood . 
where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me ? 	where are the thousand
thy mistress' marks ? 	your mistress’s marks ? 
what mistress ,  slave ,  hast thou ? 	what mistress do you have ? 
what ,  wilt thou flout me thus unto my face ,  Being forbid ? 	what ,  are you going to mock me to my face when I told you not to ? 
there ,  take you that ,  sir knave . 	there ,  take that ,  you scoundrel ! 
what mean you ,  sir ? 	what are you doing ? 
for God’s sake ,  hold your hands . 	stop ,  for God’s sake ! 
nay ,  an you will not ,  sir ,  I’ll take my heels . 	well ,  if you don’t ,  then I’m out of here . 
upon my life ,  by some device or other The villain is o'erraught of all my money . 	I swear ,  somehow the fool has been cheated out of all my money . 
they say this town is full of cozenage ,  As nimble jugglers that deceive the eye ,  Dark - working sorcerers that change the mind ,  Soul - killing witches that deform the body ,  Disguised cheaters ,  prating mountebanks ,  And many suchlike liberties of sin . 	they say that this town is full of deception—illusionists that can fool the eye ,  dark sorcerers who can bewitch your mind ,  soul - killing witches who can disfigure your body ,  disguised swindlers ,  fast - talking fakers ,  and all kinds of other unchecked sins . 
neither my husband nor the slave returned That in such haste I sent to seek his master ? 	neither my husband nor the slave has returned ,  even though I sent the slave off running . 
sure ,  Luciana ,  it is two o'clock . 	surely ,  Luciana ,  it’s already two o'clock . 
perhaps some merchant hath invited him ,  And from the mart he’s somewhere gone to dinner . 	maybe some merchant at the marketplace invited him home for lunch . 
good sister ,  let us dine and never fret . 	sister ,  let’s eat and stop worrying . 
a man is master of his liberty; Time is their master ,  and when they see time They’ll go or come . 	a man is master of his own freedom: time is his only master ,  and when the right moment comes along ,  he’ll come or go as he pleases . 
If so ,  be patient ,  sister . 	If this is so ,  be patient ,  sister . 
why should their liberty than ours be more ? 	why should men be more free than women ? 
because their business still lies out o' door . 	because their business lies outside the home . 
why ,  headstrong liberty is lashed with woe . 	why ,  too much freedom leads to woe . 
then let your will attend on their accords . 	therefore ,  you should obey their wishes . 
this servitude makes you to keep unwed . 	It’s this servantlike mentality that’s keeping you unmarried . 
not this ,  but troubles of the marriage bed . 	no ,  that’s not it—it’s because of what happens in the marriage bed . 
but ,  were you wedded ,  you would bear some sway . 	but if you were married ,  you’d wield some influence . 
ere I learn love ,  I’ll practice to obey . 	before I learn how to love ,  I’ll learn how to follow orders . 
how if your husband start some otherwhere ? 	what if your husband strays elsewhere ? 
till he come home again ,  I would forbear . 	I’d endure it until he came home again . 
patience unmoved ! 	now that’s patience ! 
no marvel though she pause; They can be meek that have no other cause . 	no wonder she’s waiting to get married . 
a wretched soul ,  bruised with adversity We bid be quiet when we hear it cry ,  But were we burdened with like weight of pain ,  As much or more we should ourselves complain . 	when we’re faced with a wretched person ,  bruised and crying with hardship ,  we try to get them to shush up . 
so thou ,  that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee ,  With urging helpless patience would relieve me; But ,  if thou live to see like right bereft ,  This fool - begged patience in thee will be left . 	but if you live to see yourself similarly denied your rights ,  this foolish patience will abandon you . 
well ,  I will marry one day ,  but to try . 	well ,  I’ll get married one day ,  just to see . 
say ,  is your tardy master now at hand ? 	tell me ,  is your tardy master close at hand ? 
know’st thou his mind ? 	do you know his plans ? 
but say ,  I prithee ,  is he coming home ? 	but please ,  tell me: is he coming home ? 
It seems he hath great care to please his wife . 	It seems he has taken great care to please his wife . 
why ,  mistress ,  sure my master is horn mad . 	why ,  mistress ,  my master is as angry as a bull with horns . 
horn mad ,  thou villain ! 	you bastard ! 
I mean not cuckold mad ,  But sure he is stark mad . 	I don’t mean he’s
my mistress ,  sir ,  ”  quoth I . 	my mistress ,  ”  I said . 
hang up thy mistress ! 	damn your mistress ! 
quoth my master . 	my master said it . 
I know ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ no house ,  no wife ,  no mistress .  ”  So that my errand ,  due unto my tongue ,  I thank him ,  I bare home upon my shoulders ,  For ,  in conclusion ,  he did beat me there . 	I don’t know ,  ”  he said ,   “ any house ,  wife ,  or mistress .  ”  My message ,  which was supposed to be delivered with my mouth ,  ended up being carried back home by my shoulders . 
go back again ,  thou slave ,  and fetch him home . 	go back again ,  slave ,  and bring him home . 
go back again and be new beaten home ? 	go back again ,  to be beaten home again ? 
for God’s sake ,  send some other messenger . 	for God’s sake ,  send somebody else . 
back ,  slave ,  or I will break thy pate across . 	go back ,  slave ,  or I’ll knock you one across the head . 
hence ,  prating peasant ! 	get out of here ,  you blathering peasant ! 
fetch thy master home . 	bring your master home . 
you spurn me hence ,  and he will spurn me hither . 	you kick me out ,  he kicks me back . 
If I last in this service ,  you must case me in leather . 	look at you ! 
fie ,  how impatience loureth in your face . 	you have impatience all over your face . 
his company must do his minions grace ,  Whilst I at home starve for a merry look . 	he feels the need to grace all his other tramps with his presence while I sit at home starving for a smile from him . 
hath homely age th' alluring beauty took From my poor cheek ? 	has homely old age taken the alluring beauty from my poor cheeks ? 
barren my wit ? 	have I lost my wit ? 
my decayèd fair A sunny look of his would soon repair . 	one smile from him would repair my decayed beauty . 
but ,  too unruly deer ,  he breaks the pale And feeds from home . 	but like an unruly deer ,  he’s always trespassing past the park borders and straying away from home to feed in new pastures . 
poor I am but his stale . 	I am nothing but a poor ,  used fool . 
self - harming jealousy ,  fie ,  beat it hence . 	drive it out of you . 
I know his eye doth homage otherwhere ,  Or else what lets it but he would be here ? 	I know his eyes are worshiping some other woman ,  or why wouldn’t he be here ? 
sister ,  you know he promised me a chain . 	sister ,  you know he promised to give me a necklace . 
would that alone o' love he would detain ,  So he would keep fair quarter with his bed . 	I would gladly do without that if he would only stay faithful to me . 
I see the jewel best enamelèd Will lose his beauty . 	even the best jewel can be tarnished . 
yet the gold bides still That others touch ,  and often touching will Wear gold; yet no man that hath a name By falsehood and corruption doth it shame . 	and no man with a reputation will tarnish that name with lies and bad behavior . 
since that my beauty cannot please his eye ,  I’ll weep what’s left away ,  and weeping die . 	since my beauty no longer pleases my husband ,  I’ll weep away what’s left and then die with weeping . 
how many fond fools serve mad jealousy ! 	how many infatuated people go mad with jealousy ! 
proceed ,  Solinus ,  to procure my fall ,  And by the doom of death end woes and all . 	give me the death sentence and end all my troubles . 
for ,  since the mortal and intestine jars 'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us ,  It hath in solemn synods been decreed Both by the Syracusians and ourselves ,  To admit no traffic to our adverse towns . 	ever since these deadly conflicts erupted between your violent countrymen and ours ,  both you Syracusians and we Ephesians have held serious councils and decided not to permit any travel between our two hostile towns . 
nay ,  more ,  if any born at Ephesus Be seen at any Syracusian marts and fairs; Again ,  if any Syracusian born Come to the bay of Ephesus ,  he dies ,  His goods confiscate to the Duke’s dispose ,  Unless a thousand marks be levièd To quit the penalty and to ransom him . 	no–the law goes further: if anyone born in Ephesus is seen in Syracuse’s marketplaces or if anyone born in Syracuse comes to Ephesus ,  that man dies ,  and his possessions will be confiscated by the Duke ,  unless he can raise a thousand marks to pay the penalty and ransom himself . 
thy substance ,  valued at the highest rate ,  Cannot amount unto a hundred marks; Therefore by law thou art condemned to die . 	therefore ,  by law ,  you are condemned to die . 
the gold I gave to Dromio is laid up Safe at the Centaur ,  and the heedful slave Is wandered forth ,  in care to seek me out . 	the gold I gave Dromio is safe and sound at the Centaur ,  and the inn host says that Dromio has left and is looking for me . 
by computation and mine host’s report ,  I could not speak with Dromio since at first I sent him from the mart . 	I haven’t spoken to him since I sent him away from the marketplace earlier . 
see ,  here he comes . 	here he comes . 
how now ,  sir ? 	so ,  sir . 
is your merry humor altered ? 	are you over your ridiculous mood ? 
you know no Centaur ? 	you never heard of the Centaur ? 
you received no gold ? 	you weren’t given any gold ? 
your mistress sent to have me home to dinner ? 	your mistress sent for me to come to dinner ? 
my house was at the Phoenix ? 	the Phoenix is my house ? 
wast thou mad ,  That thus so madly thou didst answer me ? 	were you mad when you spoke to me so madly ? 
what answer ,  sir ? 	said what ,  sir ? 
when spake I such a word ? 	when did I say all that ? 
I did not see you since you sent me hence ,  Home to the Centaur with the gold you gave me . 	I haven’t seen you since you sent me to the Centaur with the gold you gave me . 
villain ,  thou didst deny the gold’s receipt And told’st me of a mistress and a dinner ,  For which ,  I hope ,  thou felt’st I was displeased . 	and I hope you realized I wasn’t very happy about it . 
I am glad to see you in this merry vein . 	I’m glad to see you in such a merry mood . 
what means this jest ? 	but what’s the joke ? 
I pray you ,  master ,  tell me ? 	please ,  master ,  tell me . 
yea ,  dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth ? 	what ,  are you mocking me to my face ? 
think’st thou I jest ? 	here . 
hold ,  take thou that and that . 	take that ,  and that ! 
hold ,  sir ,  for God’s sake ! 	stop ,  sir ,  for God’s sake ! 
now your jest is earnest . 	now this joke has turned serious . 
upon what bargain do you give it me ? 	why are you doing this ? 
because that I familiarly sometimes Do use you for my fool and chat with you ,  Your sauciness will jest upon my love And make a common of my serious hours . 	just because I act familiar with you sometimes and let you fool around and joke with me ,  you try to take advantage of my affection . 
sconce ”  call you it ? 	you call it my  “  Don’t you know ? 
shall I tell you why ? 	should I tell you why ? 
well ,  sir ,  I thank you . 	well ,  thank you . 
marry ,  sir ,  for this something that you gave me for nothing . 	because you gave me something for nothing . 
I’ll make you amends next ,  to give you nothing for something . 	next time I’ll give you nothing for something . 
but say ,  sir ,  is it dinnertime ? 	Is it lunchtime ? 
In good time ,  sir ,  what’s that ? 	what would that be ? 
basting . 	a basting . 
well ,  sir ,  then ’twill be dry . 	well ,  then it will be dry . 
If it be ,  sir ,  I pray you ,  eat none of it . 	If it is ,  I suggest you don’t eat it . 
your reason ? 	why not ? 
lest it make you choleric and purchase me another dry basting . 	because it will make you angry ,  and that will get me another beating . 
well ,  sir ,  learn to jest in good time . 	well ,  learn to make jokes at the appropriate time . 
there’s a time for all things . 	there’s a time for all things . 
I durst have denied that before you were so choleric . 	before you got so angry ,  I never would have thought that . 
by what rule ,  sir ? 	why not ? 
marry ,  sir ,  by a rule as plain as the plain bald pate of Father Time himself . 	I’ll tell you: it’s because of a law as plain as Father Time’s bald head . 
let’s hear it . 	let’s hear it . 
there’s no time for a man to recover his hair that grows bald by nature . 	there may be a time for everything ,  but no man who has gone bald naturally can get his hair back . 
why is Time such a niggard of hair ,  being ,  as it is ,  so plentiful an excrement ? 	why is Time so cheap about giving out hair ? 
why ,  but there’s many a man hath more hair than wit . 	but a lot of men have more hair than intelligence . 
why ,  thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit . 	so then ,  you must think that hairy men are honest and simpleminded . 
for what reason ? 	two reasons . 
for two ,  and sound ones too . 	and good ones ,  too . 
nay ,  not sound ,  I pray you . 	not good ones ,  please . 
sure ones ,  then . 	then sure ones . 
nay ,  not sure ,  in a thing falsing . 	no ,  not sure ones when we’re talking about something unsure . 
certain ones ,  then . 	then certain ones . 
name them . 	name them . 
the one ,  to save the money that he spends in tiring; the other ,  that at dinner they should not drop in his porridge . 	one ,  so they can save the money they spent on hairstyling ,  and two ,  so that when their hair falls out it doesn’t land in their dinner . 
you would all this time have proved there is no time for all things . 	you were supposed to be proving that there isn’t time for everything . 
thus I mend it: Time himself is bald and therefore ,  to the world’s end ,  will have bald followers . 	then I’ll change it to this: Father Time himself is bald ,  so for all time there will be bald men . 
the time was once when thou unurged wouldst vow That never words were music to thine ear ,  That never object pleasing in thine eye ,  That never touch well welcome to thy hand ,  That never meat sweet - savored in thy taste ,  Unless I spake ,  or looked ,  or touched ,  or carved to thee . 	there was a time when you’d freely tell me that words were never music to your ear unless I said them ,  that objects never pleased your eye unless I showed them to you ,  that touches never pleased your hands unless they were my touches ,  and that food never tasted sweet to you unless I had prepared it . 
how comes it now ,  my husband ,  O ,  how comes it That thou art thus estranged from thyself ? 	how is it ,  my husband—oh ,  how is it—that you have become a stranger to yourself ? 
ah ,  do not tear away thyself from me ! 	ah ,  don’t tear yourself away from me ! 
I know you not . 	I don’t know you . 
when were you wont to use my sister thus ? 	why are you treating my sister like this ? 
she sent for you by Dromio home to dinner . 	she sent Dromio to bring you home for lunch . 
by Dromio ? 	dromio ? 
by thee; and this thou didst return from him: That he did buffet thee and ,  in his blows ,  Denied my house for his ,  me for his wife . 	and this is what you told me he said: that he beat you and pretended his house wasn’t his and I wasn’t his wife . 
did you converse ,  sir ,  with this gentlewoman ? 	did you talk with this woman ? 
what is the course and drift of your compact ? 	what kind of scheme do you have going together ? 
I ,  sir ? 	me ,  sir ? 
I never saw her till this time . 	I never saw her till now . 
villain ,  thou liest; for even her very words Didst thou deliver to me on the mart . 	you said those exact things to me back in the marketplace . 
I never spake with her in all my life . 	I never talked with her in my life . 
what ,  was I married to her in my dream ? 	what ,  was I married to her in a dream ? 
or sleep I now and think I hear all this ? 	or am I asleep now and imagining all this ? 
what error drives our eyes and ears amiss ? 	what is making our eyes and ears act so strangely ? 
until I know this sure uncertainty I’ll entertain the offered fallacy . 	until I know for sure ,  I’ll humor her . 
dromio ,  go bid the servants spread for dinner . 	dromio ,  tell the servants to prepare for lunch . 
o ,  for my beads ! 	oh ,  I wish I had my rosary ! 
I cross me for a sinner . 	I’ll cross myself . 
this is the fairy land . 	this must be some kind of fairyland . 
o spite of spites ! 	oh ,  spite of spites ! 
we talk with goblins ,  owls ,  and sprites: If we obey them not ,  this will ensue: They’ll suck our breath ,  or pinch us black and blue . 	If we don’t obey them ,  they’ll suck the life out of us or pinch us black and blue . 
why prat’st thou to thyself and answer’st not ? 	why are you mumbling to yourself instead of answering the order I gave you ? 
dromio—thou ,  Dromio—thou snail ,  thou slug ,  thou sot . 	dromio ,  you drone ,  you snail ,  you slug ,  you idiot ! 
I am transformèd ,  master ,  am I not ? 	I’ve been transformed somehow ,  haven’t I ,  master ? 
I think thou art in mind ,  and so am I .  Nay ,  master ,  both in mind and in my shape . 	no ,  master ,  I’ve been changed in both mind and body . 
tis true . 	that’s true . 
I am an ass; else it could never be But I should know her as well as she knows me . 	I must be as stupid as an ass—that’s why I don’t know her ,  but she knows me . 
come ,  come ,  no longer will I be a fool ,  To put the finger in the eye and weep Whilst man and master laugh my woes to scorn . 	I won’t play the fool anymore and just cry while my husband and his man laugh at me . 
come ,  sir ,  to dinner . —Dromio ,  keep the gate . 	come ,  husband ,  let’s go to lunch . 
husband ,  I’ll dine above with you today ,  And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks . 	husband ,  I’ll eat with you in private today and hear your confession about all the pranks you’ve pulled . 
am I in earth ,  in heaven ,  or in hell ? 	am I on earth ,  in heaven ,  or in hell ? 
known unto these ,  and to myself disguised ! 	know myself ! 
master ,  shall I be porter at the gate ? 	master ,  should I watch the door ? 
ay; and let none enter ,  lest I break your pate . 	yes ,  and don’t let anyone come in ,  or else I’ll break your head . 
well ,  Syracusian ,  say in brief the cause Why thou dep - artedst from thy native home And for what cause thou camest to Ephesus . 	well ,  Syracusian ,  tell us–briefly–why you left your hometown and came to Ephesus . 
In Syracusa was I born ,  and wed Unto a woman happy but for me ,  And by me ,  had not our hap been bad . 	and yet I would have made her happy had our luck not been so bad . 
that very hour ,  and in the selfsame inn ,  A meaner woman was deliverèd Of such a burden ,  male twins ,  both alike . 	In the same hour ,  and in the same inn ,  a poor woman also delivered identical twin boys . 
unwilling ,  I agreed . 	reluctantly ,  I agreed–alas ! 
alas ,  too soon We came aboard . 	too quickly ,  we boarded a ship . 
good Signior Angelo ,  you must excuse us all; My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours . 	signior Angelo ,  please excuse us . 
say that I lingered with you at your shop To see the making of her carcanet ,  And that tomorrow you will bring it home . 	here’s the story we’ll tell her: that I was with you at your shop ,  watching you make her necklace ,  and that you’re going to deliver it tomorrow . 
but here’s a villain that would face me down He met me on the mart ,  and that I beat him And charged him with a thousand marks in gold ,  And that I did deny my wife and house . — Thou drunkard ,  thou ,  what didst thou mean by this ? 	but here comes a scoundrel who says he saw me at the marketplace and that I beat on him ,  told him I’d given him a thousand marks in gold ,  and then lied about my wife and my house . 
say what you will ,  sir ,  but I know what I know . 	say what you want ,  but I know what I know . 
I think thou art an ass . 	I think you’re an ass . 
you’re sad ,  Signior Balthasar . 	signior Balthasar ,  you look upset . 
I hold your dainties cheap ,  sir ,  and your welcome dear . 	your delicacies aren’t worth as much to me as your welcome is . 
good meat ,  sir ,  is common; that every churl affords . 	good food’s not a big deal—everyone can afford that . 
and welcome more common ,  for that’s nothing but words . 	and everyone can say  “ welcome ,  ”  which is just a word . 
small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast . 	a little food and a huge welcome makes a joyous feast . 
ay ,  to a niggardly host and more sparing guest . 	sure ,  to a cheap host and an even cheaper guest . 
but though my cates be mean ,  take them in good part . 	but look ,  even if my dishes are poor ,  eat them with my best wishes . 
better cheer may you have ,  but not with better heart . 	you may come across better food ,  but not a warmer welcome . 
but soft ! 	what’s this ? 
my door is lock’d . 	my door is locked . 
maud ,  Bridget ,  Marian ,  Ciceley ,  Gillian ,  Ginn ! 	maud ,  Bridget ,  Marian ,  Ciceley ,  Gillian ,  Ginn ! 
my master stays in the street . 	my master is standing out in the street ! 
who talks within there ? 	who’s in there ? 
ho ,  open the door . 	hey ,  open the door ! 
wherefore ? 	a reason ? 
for my dinner . 	so I can eat lunch . 
I have not dined today . 	I haven’t eaten today . 
what art thou that keep’st me out from the house I owe ? 	who do you think you are ,  keeping me out of my own house ? 
o villain ,  thou hast stolen both mine office and my name ! 	you’ve stolen both my job and my name ! 
o Lord ,  I must laugh . 	oh ,  Lord ,  this makes me laugh ! 
have at you with a proverb: shall I set in my staff ? 	I’ll come at you with the old proverb:  “ Should I make myself at home ?  ” 
do you hear ,  you minion ? 	listen up ,  you slave . 
you’ll let us in ,  I hope ? 	are you going to let us in ? 
so ,  come ,  help . 	come ,  help me bang on the door ,  master . 
well struck ! 	well done ! 
there was blow for blow . 	we answered them ,  blow for blow . 
thou baggage ,  let me in . 	you good - for - nothing ,  let me in . 
master ,  knock the door hard . 	master ,  knock hard upon the door . 
you’ll cry for this ,  minion ,  if I beat the door down . 	If I break the door down ,  slave ,  you’ll be sorry for this . 
are you there ,  wife ? 	Is that you ,  wife ? 
you might have come before . 	you could have come sooner . 
If you went in pain ,  master ,  this knave would go sore . 	If she punishes you ,  master ,  she’s sure to punish me . 
In debating which was best ,  we shall part with neither . 	we argued about which was best ,  and now we won’t get either one . 
you would say so ,  master ,  if your garments were thin . 	and if your clothes were as thin as mine ,  you’d really feel the air . 
your cake there is warm within; you stand here in the cold . 	the food inside is warm ,  but you’re out here freezing . 
It would make a man mad as a buck to be so bought and sold . 	It would make any man as mad as a bull to be betrayed like this . 
go ,  fetch me something: I’ll break ope the gate . 	go get me something I can use to break down the door . 
here’s too much  “ out upon thee !  ”  I pray thee ,  let me in . 	I’ve had enough of this  “ off with you !  ”  Come on ,  let me in ! 
well ,  I’ll break in . 	well ,  I’m going to break in . 
go ,  borrow me a crow . 	go get me a crow . 
a crow without feather ? 	a crow without feathers ? 
master ,  mean you so ? 	master ,  do you really mean that ? 
for a fish without a fin ,  there’s a fowl without a feather . —   Go ,  get thee gone . 	I meant a crowbar . 
fetch me an iron crow . 	get going already . 
have patience ,  sir . 	be patient ,  sir ! 
o ,  let it not be so . 	don’t do this ! 
and doubt not ,  sir ,  but she will well excuse Why at this time the doors are made against you . 	all this suggests that she has a good reason for doing this to you . 
be ruled by me; depart in patience ,  And let us to the Tiger all to dinner ,  And about evening come yourself alone To know the reason of this strange restraint . 	let’s assume that she has a reason ,  which you don’t know yet: have faith that she’ll eventually explain why she shut the doors on you today . 
you have prevailed . 	you’re right—I’ll go quietly . 
I will depart in quiet And ,  in despite of mirth ,  mean to be merry . 	and even though I’m in a distasteful mood ,  I’ll work on being happy . 
I know a wench of excellent discourse ,  Pretty and witty ,  wild and yet ,  too ,  gentle . 	I know a terrific wench . 
there will we dine . 	we’ll eat at her place . 
that chain will I bestow— Be it for nothing but to spite my wife— Upon mine hostess there . 	I swear to her that I haven’t ,  but it doesn’t change anything . 
I’ll meet you at that place some hour hence . 	I’ll meet you there in an hour . 
do so . 	do that . 
this jest shall cost me some expense . 	this little prank of hers is going to cost me . 
shall ,  Antipholus ,  Even in the spring of love thy love - springs rot ? 	Is the building of your love already in ruins ? 
If you did wed my sister for her wealth ,  Then for her wealth’s sake use her with more kindness . 	If you married my sister for her wealth ,  then for her wealth’s sake ,  treat her with more kindness . 
what simple thief brags of his own attaint ? 	what foolish thief brags about his crimes ? 
tis double wrong to truant with your bed And let her read it in thy looks at board . 	It’s doubly wrong to cheat on your wife and then let her see the offense in your eyes . 
though others have the arm ,  show us the sleeve; We in your motion turn ,  and you may move us . 	we follow in your orbit ,  and you have the power to move us . 
then ,  gentle brother ,  get you in again . 	so ,  my sweet brother - in - law ,  go inside . 
sweet mistress—what your name is else I know not ,  Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine , —	sweet mistress—I don’t know what other name to give you ,  or how you’ve figured out mine—you seem as
less in your knowledge and your grace you show not Than our earth’s wonder ,  more than earth divine . 	wise and graceful as the earth is wonderful and divine . 
teach me ,  dear creature ,  how to think and speak . 	teach me how I should think and speak . 
against my soul’s pure truth why labour you To make it wander in an unknown field ? 	why would you have me betray the truth of my emotions and make my love wander in some other direction ? 
are you a god ? 	are you a god ? 
would you create me new ? 	are you trying to remake me ? 
transform me ,  then ,  and to your power I’ll yield . 	go ahead ,  I’ll yield to your power . 
but if that I am I ,  then well I know Your weeping sister is no wife of mine ,  Nor to her bed no homage do I owe . 	but if I am myself ,  then I know for sure that your weeping sister is not my wife . 
far more ,  far more ,  to you do I decline . 	I don’t owe her any duty—it’s you that I submit to . 
o ,  train me not ,  sweet mermaid ,  with thy note To drown me in thy sister’s flood of tears . 	oh ,  sweet mermaid ,  don’t command me to drown myself in the flood of your sister’s tears . 
what ,  are you mad that you do reason so ? 	are you insane ,  talking like this ? 
It is a fault that springeth from your eye . 	your eyes are playing tricks on you . 
for gazing on your beams ,  fair sun ,  being by . 	that’s because you are near me ,  and you’re as dazzling as the sun . 
why call you me  “ love ”  ? 	why are you calling me  “ love ”  ? 
call my sister so . 	call my sister that . 
thy sister’s sister . 	your sister’s sister . 
that’s my sister . 	that’s my sister . 
no ,  It is thyself ,  mine own self’s better part ,  Mine eye’s clear eye ,  my dear heart’s dearer heart ,  My food ,  my fortune ,  and my sweet hope’s aim ,  My sole earth’s heaven ,  and my heaven’s claim . 	my food ,  my fortune ,  my sweetest hope ,  my heaven on earth ,  and my entrance to heaven . 
all this my sister is ,  or else should be . 	my sister is all those things ,  or else she should be . 
call thyself  “ sister ,  ”  sweet ,  for I am thee . 	call yourself your own sister ,  because I want you . 
give me thy hand . 	give me your hand . 
o soft ,  sir ! 	oh ,  wait ,  sir . 
hold you still . 	stay here . 
I’ll fetch my sister to get her goodwill . 	I’ll go get my sister and see what she thinks . 
why ,  how now ,  Dromio . 	what’s going on ,  Dromio ? 
where runn’st thou so fast ? 	where are you running so fast ? 
do you know me ,  sir ? 	do you know me ? 
am I Dromio ? 	am I Dromio ? 
am I your man ? 	am I your servant ? 
am I myself ? 	am I myself ? 
the children thus disposed ,  my wife and I ,  Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fixed ,  Fastened ourselves at either end the mast And ,  floating straight ,  obedient to the stream ,  Was carried towards Corinth ,  as we thought . 	It carried us toward Corinth–or so we thought . 
but ere they came , –O ,  let me say no more ! 	but before they reached us–let me say no more ! 
thou art Dromio ,  thou art my man ,  thou art thyself . 	you are Dromio ,  you are my servant ,  and you are yourself . 
I am an ass ,  I am a woman’s man ,  and besides myself . 	I’m an ass ,  I’m a woman’s servant ,  and I’m beside myself . 
what woman’s man ? 	what woman’s servant ? 
and how besides thyself ? 	what do you mean ,  beside yourself ? 
what claim lays she to thee ? 	how does she claim to own you ? 
what is she ? 	I don’t mean that she wants me because  What’s she like ? 
marry ,  sir ,  she’s the kitchen wench ,  and all grease ,  and I know not what use to put her to but to make a lamp of her and run from her by her own light . 	the only thing I could do with her is to use all that oil as fuel in a lamp and then use that light to run away by . 
I warrant her rags and the	her
If she lives till doomsday ,  she’ll burn a week longer than the whole world . 	even if she lives till the end of the world ,  she’d keep burning an additional week . 
what complexion is she of ? 	what’s her skin like ? 
swart like my shoe ,  but her face nothing like so clean kept . 	It’s dark ,  like my shoe . 
that’s a fault that water will mend . 	some water will fix that . 
no ,  sir ,  ’tis in grain; Noah’s flood could not do it . 	no ,  it’s permanent . 
what’s her name ? 	what’s her name ? 
then she bears some breadth ? 	nell . 
she is spherical ,  like a globe . 	she’s round ,  like a globe . 
In what part of her body stands Ireland ? 	what part of her body is Ireland ? 
marry ,  sir ,  in her buttocks . 	her bottom . 
faith ,  I saw it not ,  but I felt it hot in her breath . 	honestly ,  I didn’t see it ,  but I felt it in her hot breath . 
where America ,  the Indies ? 	where’s America and the West Indies ? 
o ,  sir ,  upon her nose ,  all o'er - embellished with rubies ,  carbuncles ,  sapphires ,  declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of Spain ,  who sent whole armadas of caracks to be ballast at her nose . 	oh ,  sir ,  on her nose ,  which is covered with pimples ,  sores ,  and red welts . 
and ,  I think ,  if my breast had not been made of faith ,  and my heart of steel ,  She had transformed me to a curtal dog and made me turn i' th' wheel . 	and I think that if I hadn’t been brave and strong ,  she would have turned me into a dog and made me her slave . 
an if the wind blow any way from shore ,  I will not harbor in this town tonight . 	If there’s enough wind for a ship to sail out tonight ,  I won’t spend tonight in this town . 
If any bark put forth ,  come to the mart ,  Where I will walk till thou return to me . 	If a ship’s leaving ,  come to the marketplace . 
If every one knows us ,  and we know none ,  'Tis time ,  I think ,  to trudge ,  pack ,  and be gone . 	If everyone here knows us but we don’t know anybody ,  it’s time ,  I think ,  for us to pack our bags and take off . 
as from a bear a man would run for life ,  So fly I from her that would be my wife . 	I’ll run from this woman who claims to be my wife as fast as I’d run from a bear . 
there’s none but witches do inhabit here ,  And therefore ’tis high time that I were hence . 	that means it’s high time for me to go . 
she that doth call me husband ,  even my soul Doth for a wife abhor . 	that woman who claims I am her husband—I loathe her in my soul . 
but lest myself be guilty to self wrong ,  I’ll stop mine ears against the mermaid’s song . 	I’d better stop up my ears against this siren’s song . 
I know it well ,  sir . 	I know that ,  sir . 
lo ,  here’s the chain . 	look ,  here’s the necklace . 
what is your will that I shall do with this ? 	what do you want me to do with this ? 
I have made it for you . 	whatever you want—I made it for you . 
made it for me ,  sir ? 	made it for me ? 
I bespoke it not . 	I didn’t order it . 
not once ,  nor twice ,  but twenty times you have . 	you did—not just once or twice ,  but twenty times . 
you are a merry man ,  sir . 	you’re a funny man ,  sir . 
fare you well . 	take care . 
what I should think of this I cannot tell ,  But this I think: there’s no man is so vain That would refuse so fair an offered chain . 	I don’t know what to think about this . 
I’ll to the mart ,  and there for Dromio stay . 	I’ll go wait for Dromio at the marketplace . 
If any ship put out ,  then straight away . 	If any ships are sailing ,  I’ll get right on one . 
even just the sum that I do owe to you Is growing to me by Antipholus . 	antipholus owes me the exact amount that I owe you . 
at five o'clock I shall receive the money for the same . 	at five o'clock he’s going to pay me for it . 
pleaseth you walk with me down to his house ,  I will discharge my bond and thank you too . 	please ,  come to his house with me . 
saving your merry humor ,  here’s the note How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat ,  The fineness of the gold ,  and chargeful fashion ,  Which doth amount to three - odd ducats more Than I stand debted to this gentleman . 	the total due is about three ducats more than I owe this gentleman . 
I pray you ,  see him presently discharged ,  For he is bound to sea ,  and stays but for it . 	please ,  pay him immediately . 
I am not furnished with the present money . 	I don’t have the cash right now . 
besides ,  I have some business in the town . 	besides ,  I have some business to take care of in town . 
then you will bring the chain to her yourself . 	so you’ll bring the necklace to her yourself ? 
well ,  sir ,  I will . 	all right ,  sir ,  I will . 
have you the chain about you ? 	do you have it with you ? 
nay ,  come ,  I pray you ,  sir ,  give me the chain . 	listen ,  please ,  give me the necklace . 
both wind and tide stays for this gentleman ,  And I ,  to blame ,  have held him here too long . 	the wind is right and it’s high tide ,  and I’ve delayed him a long time already . 
good Lord ! 	good Lord ! 
you use this dalliance to excuse Your breach of promise to the Porpentine . 	you’re using this as an excuse for not showing up at the Porcupine like you promised . 
I should have chid you for not bringing it ,  But ,  like a shrew ,  you first begin to brawl . 	I should have reprimanded you then for not bringing it ,  but you started fighting with me first . 
the hour steals on . 	It’s getting late . 
I pray you ,  sir ,  dispatch . 	please ,  sir ,  hurry up . 
you hear how he importunes me . 	antipholus ,  you hear how the man pleads with me . 
the chain ! 	give me the necklace ! 
why ,  give it to my wife ,  and fetch your money . 	give it to my wife ,  and get your money . 
come ,  come . 	come ,  come . 
you know I gave it you even now . 	you know I gave it to you just now . 
either send the chain ,  or send me by some token . 	send the necklace to her ,  or send me with a token that will authorize her to pay me . 
fie ,  now you run this humor out of breath . 	damn it ,  this isn’t funny . 
come ,  where’s the chain ? 	where’s the necklace ? 
I pray you ,  let me see it . 	let me see it . 
I answer you ? 	pay you ? 
what should I answer you ? 	what should I pay you ? 
the money that you owe me for the chain . 	the money you owe me for the necklace . 
I owe you none till I receive the chain . 	I owe you nothing until I receive the necklace . 
you know I gave it you half an hour since . 	you know that I gave it to you a half hour ago . 
you wrong me more ,  sir ,  in denying it . 	you wrong me even more ,  sir ,  by denying it . 
consider how it stands upon my credit . 	consider how poorly this reflects on me . 
well ,  officer ,  arrest him at my suit . 	I will . 
I do ,   This touches me in reputation . 	this harms my reputation . 
consent to pay thee that I never had ? — Arrest me ,  foolish fellow ,  if thou dar’st . 	pay for something I never got ? 
here is thy fee . 	go ahead ,  you fool . 
arrest him ,  officer . 	arrest me if you dare . 
I would not spare my brother in this case If he should scorn me so apparently . 	I would have my own brother arrested if he treated me so terribly . 
I do arrest you ,  sir . 	you’re under arrest ,  sir . 
you hear the suit . 	you hear the charges . 
I do obey thee till I give thee bail . 	I’ll obey you until I can make bail . 
but ,  sirrah ,  you shall buy this sport as dear As all the metal in your shop will answer . 	but Angelo ,  you’ll pay for this ,  even if it costs all the precious metals in your jewelry shop . 
sir ,  sir ,  I will have law in Ephesus ,  To your notorious shame ,  I doubt it not . 	sir ,  the laws of Ephesus will be on my side ,  and you’ll be embarrassed . 
nay ,  forward ,  old man . 	no ,  keep going ,  old man; don’t stop like that . 
do not break off so ,  For we may pity though not pardon thee . 	for we may take pity on you ,  even if we can’t pardon you . 
o ,  had the gods done so ,  I had not now Worthily termed them merciless to us . 	had the gods taken pity on us ,  I wouldn’t be here calling them merciless . 
thus have you heard me severed from my bliss; That by misfortunes was my life prolonged To tell sad stories of my own mishaps . 	It’s been my bad luck to remain alive long enough to be able to tell the sad stories of my own misfortunes . 
and for the sake of them thou sorrowest for ,  Do me the favour to dilate at full What hath befall'n of them and thee till now . 	and for the sake of those you grieve for ,  do me a favor: tell me the full story of what has happened to you and them ,  up to this point . 
our fraughtage ,  sir ,  I have conveyed aboard ,  and I have bought The oil ,  the balsamum and aqua vitae . 	I’ve left our luggage on the ship ,  and I bought the oil ,  balm ,  and liquor you wanted . 
why ,  thou peevish sheep ,  What ship of Epidamnum stays for me ? 	you annoying idiot ,  what Epidamnum ship is waiting for me ? 
a ship you sent me to ,  to hire waftage . 	a ship you sent me to find ,  to book passage out of here . 
thou drunken slave ,  I sent thee for a rope And told thee to what purpose and what end . 	you drunken slave ,  I sent you for a rope ,  and I told you what to do with it . 
you sent me for a rope’s end as soon . 	yeah ,  right—you sent me to get whipped . 
you sent me to the bay ,  sir ,  for a bark . 	you sent me to the port to find a ship . 
I will debate this matter at more leisure And teach your ears to list me with more heed . 	I’ll debate this with you later ,  and then I’ll teach you to listen more carefully . 
to Adriana ,  villain ,  hie thee straight . 	go to Adriana ,  you scoundrel ,  and quickly . 
give her this key ,  and tell her in the desk That’s cover’d o'er with Turkish tapestry There is a purse of ducats . 	give her this key ,  and tell her that there’s money in the desk that’s covered with a Turkish tapestry . 
let her send it . 	have her send it to me . 
tell her I am arrested in the street ,  And that shall bail me . 	tell her that I’ve been arrested and the money will be my bail . 
hie thee ,  slave . 	hurry ,  you slave ! 
begone . — On ,  officer ,  to prison till it come . 	go ! 
to Adriana . 	to Adriana ? 
that is where we dined ,  Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband . 	where that  “ sweetheart ”  said I was her husband ! 
she is too big ,  I hope ,  for me to compass . 	she’s too much for me to handle . 
thither I must ,  although against my will ,  For servants must their masters' minds fulfill . 	but I must go there ,  against my will: servants must fulfill their masters' wishes . 
ah ,  Luciana ,  did he tempt thee so ? 	oh ,  Luciana ,  did he tempt you like that ? 
looked he or red or pale ,  or sad or merrily ? 	sad or happy ? 
first he denied you had in him no right . 	first ,  he said you had no right to him . 
he meant he did me none; the more my spite . 	he meant he did nothing right for me—which is true ,  unfortunately . 
then swore he that he was a stranger here . 	then he swore he was a stranger here . 
then pleaded I for you . 	and that’s true—he  Then I pleaded for you . 
and what said he ? 	and what did he say ? 
that love i begged for you he begged of me . 	that he felt for me the love that I begged him to feel for you . 
with what persuasion did he tempt thy love ? 	how did he try to persuade you to love him ? 
have patience ,  I beseech . 	have some patience ,  please . 
who would be jealous ,  then ,  of such a one ? 	then why be jealous of a person like that ? 
no evil lost is wailed when it is gone . 	when an evil thing has been lost ,  no one cries . 
ah ,  but I think him better than I say ,  And yet would herein others' eyes were worse . 	oh ,  but I think of him more highly than I say I do—and I wish he looked worse in other women’s eyes . 
my heart prays for him ,  though my tongue do curse . 	my heart adores him ,  even though my tongue curses him . 
how hast thou lost thy breath ? 	how did you lose your breath ? 
by running fast . 	by running fast . 
where is thy master ,  Dromio ? 	where’s your master ,  Dromio ? 
Is he well ? 	Is he all right ? 
no ,  he’s in Tartar limbo ,  worse than hell . 	no ,  he’s in a place worse than hell . 
the passages of alleys ,  creeks ,  and narrow lands; A hound that runs counter and yet draws dryfoot well ,  One that before the judgment carries poor souls to hell . 	a backbiting friend ,  one who grabs people ,  who patrols the streets and passageways . 
why ,  man ,  what is the matter ? 	speak ,  man ,  what’s the matter ? 
tell me at whose suit . 	tell me ,  who had him arrested ? 
I know not at whose suit he is arrested well ,  But he’s in a suit of buff which ’rested him; that can I tell . 	I don’t know who had him arrested ,  but the man that arrested him was in a suit of leather . 
go fetch it ,  sister . 	get it ,  sister . 
this I wonder at ,  That he ,  unknown to me ,  should be in debt . 	how could he be in debt without me knowing it ? 
do you not hear it ring ? 	don’t you hear it ring ? 
what ,  the chain ? 	what ,  the necklace ? 
no ,  no ,  the bell . 	no ,  no ,  the bell . 
tis time that I were gone . 	It’s time for me to go . 
It was two ere I left him ,  and now the clock strikes one . 	It was two o'clock when I left him ,  and now it’s one . 
that did I never hear . 	I’ve never heard of that . 
excellent well . 	of course . 
you are a fishmonger . 	you sell fish . 
not I ,  my lord . 	no ,  not me ,  sir . 
then I would you were so honest a man . 	In that case I wish you were as good a man as a fish seller . 
honest ,  my lord ? 	good ,  sir ? 
ay ,  sir . 	yes ,  sir . 
to be honest ,  as this world goes ,  is to be one man picked out of ten thousand . 	only one man in ten thousand is good in this world . 
that’s very true ,  my lord . 	that’s definitely true ,  my lord . 
for if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog ,  being a good kissing carrion— Have you a daughter ? 	since if the sun breeds maggots on a dead dog ,  kissing the corpse—by the way ,  do you have a daughter ? 
I have ,  my lord . 	I do indeed ,  my lord . 
let her not walk i' th' sun . 	then by all means never let her walk in public . 
conception is a blessing ,  but ,  as your daughter may conceive—Friend ,  look to ’t . 	procreation is a good thing ,  but if your daughter gets pregnant … look out ,  friend . 
words ,  words ,  words . 	a lot of words . 
what is the matter ,  my lord ? 	and what is the subject ? 
between who ? 	between whom ? 
I mean ,  the matter that you read ,  my lord . 	I mean ,  what do the words say ? 
slanders ,  sir . 	oh ,  just lies ,  sir . 
Into my grave . 	Into my grave . 
Indeed ,  that is out of the air . 	well ,  that’s certainly out of this world ,  all right . 
you cannot ,  sir ,  take from me any thing that I will more willingly part withal—except my life ,  except my life ,  except my life . 	you can’t take anything from me that I care less about—except my life ,  except my life ,  except my life . 
fare you well ,  my lord . 	good - bye ,  my lord . 
you go to seek the Lord Hamlet . 	you’re looking for Lord Hamlet . 
there he is . 	he’s right over there . 
god save you ,  sir ! 	thank you ,  sir . 
my honored lord ! 	my lord ! 
my most dear lord ! 	my dear sir ! 
my excellent good friends ! 	ah ,  my good old friends ! 
how dost thou ,  Guildenstern ? 	how are you ,  Guildenstern ? 
ah ,  Rosencrantz ! 	and Rosencrantz ! 
good lads ,  how do you both ? 	boys ,  how are you both doing ? 
happy ,  in that we are not overhappy . 	happy that we’re not too happy ,  lucky in being not too lucky . 
on Fortune’s cap we are not the very button . 	but you’re not down and out ,  either ,  are you ? 
then you live about her waist ,  or in the middle of her favors ? 	so you’re around Lady Luck’s waist ? 
faith ,  her privates we . 	yes ,  we’re the privates in her army . 
what news ? 	anyway ,  what’s up ? 
but your news is not true . 	but you’re wrong . 
let me question more in particular . 	let me ask you a particular question . 
what have you ,  my good friends ,  deserved at the hands of fortune that she sends you to prison hither ? 	what crimes have you committed to be sent here to this prison ? 
prison ,  my lord ? 	prison ,  my lord ? 
denmark’s a prison . 	denmark’s a prison . 
then is the world one . 	then I guess the whole world is one . 
a goodly one ,  in which there are many confines ,  wards ,  and dungeons ,  Denmark being one o' th' worst . 	yes ,  quite a large one ,  with many cells and dungeons ,  Denmark being one of the worst . 
we think not so ,  my lord . 	we don’t think so ,  my lord . 
why ,  then ,  ’tis none to you ,  for there is nothing either good or bad ,  but thinking makes it so . 	well ,  then it isn’t one to you ,  since nothing is really good or bad in itself—it’s all what a person thinks about it . 
to me it is a prison . 	and to me ,  Denmark is a prison . 
why then ,  your ambition makes it one . 	that must be because you’re so ambitious . 
tis too narrow for your mind . 	It’s too small for your large mind . 
which dreams indeed are ambition ,  for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream . 	dreams are a sign of ambition ,  since ambition is nothing more than the shadow of a dream . 
a dream itself is but a shadow . 	but a dream itself is just a shadow . 
truly ,  and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow’s shadow . 	In fact ,  I consider ambition to be so light and airy that it’s only the shadow of a shadow . 
then are our beggars bodies ,  and our monarchs and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows . 	then I guess beggars are the ones with bodies ,  while ambitious kings and heroes are just the shadows of beggars . 
shall we to th' court ? 	should we go inside ? 
beggar that I am ,  I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you ,  and sure ,  dear friends ,  my thanks are too dear a halfpenny . 	well ,  then ,  I thank you ,  though I’m such a beggar that even my thanks are not worth much . 
Is it your own inclining ? 	or was it just your whim ,  on your own initiative ? 
what should we say ,  my lord ? 	what should we say ,  my lord ? 
you were sent for ,  and there is a kind of confession in your looks which your modesties have not craft enough to color . 	you were sent for . 
I know the good king and queen have sent for you . 	I know the king and queen sent for you . 
to what end ,  my lord ? 	why would they do that ,  my lord ? 
that you must teach me . 	that’s what I want you to tell me . 
my lord ,  we were sent for . 	my lord ,  we were sent for . 
what might be toward ,  that this sweaty haste Doth make the night joint laborer with the day ? 	Is something about to happen that warrants working this night and day ? 
who is ’t that can inform me ? 	who can explain this to me ? 
that can I . 	I can . 
I will tell you why . 	or at least I can describe the rumors . 
why did you laugh then ,  when I said  “ man delights not me ”  ? 	so why did you laugh when I said that men don’t interest me ? 
he that plays the king shall be welcome . 	the one who plays the part of the king will be particularly welcome . 
the adventurous knight shall use his foil and target ,  the lover shall not sigh gratis ,  the humorous man shall end his part in peace ,  the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o' th' sear ,  and the lady shall say her mind freely ,  or the blank verse shall halt for ’t . 	the adventurous knight will wave around his sword and shield ,  the lover will be rewarded for his sighs ,  the crazy character can rant all he wants ,  the clown will make everybody laugh ,  and the lady character can say whatever’s on her mind ,  or I’ll stop the play . 
what players are they ? 	which troupe is it ? 
even those you were wont to take delight in ,  the tragedians of the city . 	the tragic actors from the city ,  the ones you used to enjoy so much . 
how chances it they travel ? 	what are they doing on the road ? 
their residence ,  both in reputation and profit ,  was better both ways . 	they made more money and got more attention in the city . 
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation . 	but things have changed there ,  and it’s easier for them on the road now . 
do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the city ? 	are they as popular as they used to be when I lived in the city ? 
are they so followed ? 	do they attract big audiences ? 
no ,  indeed are they not . 	no ,  not like before . 
how comes it ? 	why ? 
do they grow rusty ? 	are they getting rusty ? 
nay ,  their endeavor keeps in the wonted pace . 	no ,  they’re busy and as excellent as ever . 
but there is ,  sir ,  an eyrie of children ,  little eyases ,  that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapped for ’t . 	the problem is that they have to compete with a group of children who yell out their lines and receive outrageous applause for it . 
these are now the fashion ,  and so berattle the common stages—so they call them—that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose quills and dare scarce come thither . 	these child actors are now in fashion ,  and they’ve so overtaken the public theaters that society types hardly come at all ,  they’re so afraid of being mocked by the playwrights who write for the boys . 
what ,  are they children ? 	what ,  you mean kid actors ? 
who maintains 'em ? 	who takes care of them ? 
how are they escoted ? 	who pays their way ? 
will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing ? 	will they stop working when their voices mature ? 
will they not say afterwards ,  if they should grow themselves to common players (as it is most like if their means are no better) ,  their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession ? 	aren’t the playwrights hurting them by making them upstage adult actors ,  which they are going to grow up and become ? 
faith ,  there has been much to do on both sides ,  and the nation holds it no sin to tar them to controversy . 	there’s been a whole debate on the topic . 
there was ,  for a while ,  no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question . 	for a while ,  no play was sold to the theaters without a big fight between the children’s playwright and the actors playing adult roles . 
Is ’t possible ? 	are you kidding ? 
oh ,  there has been much throwing about of brains . 	oh ,  there’s been a lot of quarreling . 
do the boys carry it away ? 	and the boys are winning so far ? 
It is not very strange . 	actually ,  it’s not so unusual when you think about it . 
for my uncle is King of Denmark ,  and those that would make mouths at him while my father lived give twenty ,  forty ,  fifty ,  a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little . 	my uncle is king of Denmark ,  and the same people who made fun of him while my father was still alive are now rushing to pay twenty ,  forty ,  fifty ,  a hundred ducats apiece for miniature portraits of him . 
sblood ,  there is something in this more than natural ,  if philosophy could find it out . 	there’s something downright unnatural about it ,  if a philosopher stopped to think about it . 
there are the players . 	the actors are here . 
gentlemen ,  you are welcome to Elsinore . 	gentlemen ,  welcome to Elsinore . 
your hands ,  come then . 	don’t be shy—shake hands with me . 
let me comply with you in this garb—lest my extent to the players ,  which ,  I tell you ,  must show fairly outwards ,  should more appear like entertainment than yours . 	and if we don’t shake hands ,  when I act all nice to the players it will seem like I’m happier to see them than you . 
you are welcome . 	you are very welcome here . 
but my uncle - father and aunt - mother are deceived . 	but still ,  my uncle - father and aunt - mother have got the wrong idea . 
In what ,  my dear lord ? 	In what sense ,  my lord ? 
I am but mad north - north - west . 	I’m only crazy sometimes . 
when the wind is southerly ,  I know a hawk from a handsaw . 	at other times ,  I know what’s what . 
well be with you ,  gentlemen . 	gentlemen ,  I hope you are well . 
hark you ,  Guildenstern ,  and you too—at each ear a hearer . 	listen ,  Guildenstern ,  and you too ,  Rosencrantz—listen as close as you can ! 
happily he’s the second time come to them ,  for they say an old man is twice a child . 	yes ,  the second time around ,  since ,  as they say ,  old people become children again . 
my lord ,  I have news to tell you . 	my lord ,  I have news for you . 
my lord ,  I have news to tell you . 	my lord ,  I have news for you . 
when Roscius was an actor in Rome—  The actors are come hither ,  my lord . 	when Roscius was an actor in ancient Rome — The actors have arrived ,  my lord . 
buzz ,  buzz . 	yawn ,  snore . 
upon my honor— Then came each actor on his ass—	I swear— —each actor arrived on his ass . 
why ,        Am I not i' th' right ,  old Jephthah ? 	well ,         Aren’t I right ,  Jephthah ,  old man ? 
If you call me Jephthah ,  my lord ,  I have a daughter that I love passing well . 	If you’re calling me Jephthah ,  my lord ,  I do have a daughter I love more than anything ,  yes . 
what follows ,  then ,  my lord ? 	what is logical ,  then ,  my lord ? 
why , 	why , 
you are welcome ,  masters ,  welcome ,  all ! —I am glad to see thee well . —Welcome ,  good friends . —O old friend ? 	welcome ,  welcome to all of you . 
what speech ,  my good lord ? 	which speech ,  my lord ? 
but it was—as I received it ,  and others ,  whose judgments in such matters cried in the top of mine—an excellent play ,  well digested in the scenes ,  set down with as much modesty as cunning . 	but the critics and I found it to be an excellent play ,  with well - ordered scenes that were clever but not fancy . 
one speech in it I chiefly loved . 	I loved one speech in particular . 
this is too long . 	this speech is going on too long . 
It shall to the barber’s ,  with your beard . —Prithee ,  say on . 	we’ll have the barber trim it later ,  along with your beard . 
the moblèd queen ”  ? 	the muffled queen ”  ? 
that’s good . 	that’s good . 
moblèd queen ”  is good . 	the muffled queen ”  is good . 
look whe'e he has not turned his color and has tears in ’s eyes . —Prithee ,  no more . 	look how flushed the actor is ,  with tears in his eyes . 
my lord ,  I will use them according to their desert . 	my lord ,  I will give them all they deserve . 
god’s bodykins ,  man ,  much better . 	good heavens ,  man ,  give them more than that ! 
use them after your own honor and dignity . 	treat them with honor and dignity . 
the less they deserve ,  the more merit is in your bounty . 	the less they deserve ,  the more your generosity is worth . 
take them in . 	lead them inside . 
come ,  sirs . 	come ,  everyone . 
follow him ,  friends . 	follow him ,  friends . 
we’ll hear a play tomorrow . 	we’ll watch a whole play tomorrow . 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
we’ll ha ’t tomorrow night . 	then we’ll see that tomorrow night . 
you could ,  for a need ,  study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and insert in ’t ,  could you not ? 	by the way ,  if I were to compose an extra speech of twelve to sixteen lines and stick it into the play ,  you could learn it by heart for tomorrow ,  right ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
very well . 	very well . 
follow that lord ,  and look you mock him not . 	follow that gentleman now ,  and be careful not to make fun of him . 
my good friends ,  I’ll leave you till night . 	my good friends ,  I’ll see you tomorrow . 
you are welcome to Elsinore . 	welcome to Elsinore . 
good my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
now I am alone . 	now I’m alone . 
oh ,  what a rogue and peasant slave am I ! 	oh ,  what a mean low - life I am ! 
and all for nothing— For Hecuba ! 	for Hecuba ! 
and terms compulsatory ,  those foresaid lands So by his father lost . 	the ghost is definitely something to worry about . 
In the most high and palmy state of Rome ,  A little ere the mightiest Julius fell ,  The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood ,  Disasters in the sun ,  and the moist star Upon whose influence Neptune’s empire stands Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse . 	In the high and mighty Roman Empire ,  just before the emperor Julius Caesar was assassinated ,  corpses rose out of their graves and ran through the streets of Rome speaking gibberish . 
but soft ,  behold ! 	wait ,  look ! 
lo ,  where it comes again . 	It has come again . 
I’ll cross it though it blast me . —Stay ,  illusion ! 	I’ll meet it if it’s the last thing I do . 
If thou hast any sound or use of voice ,  Speak to me . 	If you have a voice or can make sounds ,  speak to me . 
am I a coward ? 	am I a coward ? 
plucks off my beard and blows it in my face ? 	pull off my beard ? 
tweaks me by the nose ? 	pinch my nose ? 
who does me this ? 	call me the worst liar ? 
bloody ,  bawdy villain ! 	bloody ,  inhuman villain ! 
remorseless ,  treacherous ,  lecherous ,  kindless villain ! 	remorseless ,  treacherous ,  sex - obsessed ,  unnatural villain ! 
o vengeance ! 	ah ,  revenge ! 
why ,  what an ass am I ! 	what an ass I am . 
fie upon ’t ,  foh ! 	damn it ! 
for murder ,  though it have no tongue ,  will speak With most miraculous organ . 	murder has no tongue ,  but miraculously it still finds a way to speak . 
If he do blench ,  I know my course . 	If he becomes pale ,  I know what to do . 
I’ll have grounds More relative than this . 	I need better evidence than the ghost to work with . 
the play’s the thing Wherein I’ll catch the conscience of the king . 	the play’s the thing to uncover the conscience of the king . 
and can you by no drift of conference Get from him why he puts on this confusion ,  Grating so harshly all his days of quiet With turbulent and dangerous lunacy ? 	and you can’t put your heads together and figure out why he’s acting so dazed and confused ,  ruining his peace and quiet with such dangerous displays of lunacy ? 
did he receive you well ? 	did he treat you well when you saw him ? 
most like a gentleman . 	yes ,  in a very gentlemanly way . 
niggard of question ,  but of our demands Most free in his reply . 	he didn’t ask questions ,  but answered ours at length . 
madam ,  it so fell out ,  that certain players We o'erraught on the way . 	madam ,  some actors happened to cross our paths on the way here . 
they are about the court ,  And ,  as I think ,  they have already order This night to play before him . 	they are here at court now ,  and I believe they’ve been told to give a performance for him tonight . 
tis most true ,  And he beseeched me to entreat your Majesties To hear and see the matter . 	It’s true ,  and he asked me to beg you both to attend . 
with all my heart ,  and it doth much content me To hear him so inclined . 	It makes me very happy to hear he’s so interested . 
good gentlemen ,  give him a further edge ,  And drive his purpose on to these delights . 	gentlemen ,  please try to sharpen his interest even more ,  and let this play do him some good . 
we shall ,  my lord . 	we will ,  my lord . 
I shall obey you . 	yes ,  I’ll go . 
madam ,  I wish it may . 	I hope so too ,  Madam . 
ophelia ,  walk you here . 	ophelia ,  come here . —   I hear him coming . 
let’s withdraw ,  my lord . 	quick ,  let’s hide ,  my lord . 
to die ,  to sleep— No more—and by a sleep to say we end The heartache and the thousand natural shocks That flesh is heir to—’tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished ! 	dying ,  sleeping—that’s all dying is—a sleep that ends all the heartache and shocks that life on earth gives us—that’s an achievement to wish for . 
to die ,  to sleep . 	to die ,  to sleep—to sleep ,  maybe to dream . 
there’s the respect That makes calamity of so long life . 	that’s the consideration that makes us stretch out our sufferings so long . 
for who would bear the whips and scorns of time ,  Th' oppressor’s wrong ,  the proud man’s contumely ,  The pangs of despised love ,  the law’s delay ,  The insolence of office ,  and the spurns That patient merit of th' unworthy takes ,  When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin ? 	after all ,  who would put up with all life’s humiliations—the abuse from superiors ,  the insults of arrogant men ,  the pangs of unrequited love ,  the inefficiency of the legal system ,  the rudeness of people in office ,  and the mistreatment good people have to take from bad—when you could simply take out your knife and call it quits ? 
who would fardels bear ,  To grunt and sweat under a weary life ,  But that the dread of something after death ,  The undiscovered country from whose bourn No traveler returns ,  puzzles the will And makes us rather bear those ills we have Than fly to others that we know not of ? 	who would choose to grunt and sweat through an exhausting life ,  unless they were afraid of something dreadful after death ,  the undiscovered country from which no visitor returns ,  which we wonder about without getting any answers from and which makes us stick to the evils we know rather than rush off to seek the ones we don’t ? 
good my lord ,  How does your honor for this many a day ? 	but  Hello ,  my lord ,  how have you been doing lately ? 
I humbly thank you . 	very well ,  thank you . 
well ,  well ,  well . 	well ,  well ,  well . 
my lord ,  I have remembrances of yours That I have longèd long to redeliver . 	my lord ,  I have some mementos of yours that I’ve been meaning to give back to you for a long time now . 
I pray you now receive them . 	please take them . 
there ,  my lord . 	there ,  my lord . 
ha ,  ha ,  are you honest ? 	ha ha ,  are you good ? 
my lord ? 	excuse me ? 
are you fair ? 	are you beautiful ? 
what means your lordship ? 	my lord ,  what are you talking about ? 
that if you be honest and fair ,  your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty . 	I’m just saying that if you’re good and beautiful ,  your goodness should have nothing to do with your beauty . 
could beauty ,  my lord ,  have better commerce than with honesty ? 	but could beauty be related to anything better than goodness ? 
ay ,  truly ,  for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness . 	sure ,  since beauty’s power can more easily change a good girl into a whore than the power of goodness can change a beautiful girl into a virgin . 
this was sometime a paradox ,  but now the time gives it proof . 	this used to be a great puzzle ,  but now I’ve solved it . 
I did love you once . 	I used to love you . 
Indeed ,  my lord ,  you made me believe so . 	you certainly made me believe you did ,  my lord . 
I loved you not . 	I didn’t love you . 
I was the more deceived . 	then I guess I was misled . 
get thee to a nunnery . 	get yourself to a
I am very proud ,  revengeful ,  ambitious ,  with more offences at my beck than I have thoughts to put them in ,  imagination to give them shape ,  or time to act them in . 	I am arrogant ,  vengeful ,  ambitious ,  with more ill will in me than I can fit into my thoughts ,  and more than I have time to carry it out in . 
what should such fellows as I do crawling between earth and heaven ? 	why should people like me be crawling around between earth and heaven ? 
we are arrant knaves ,  all . 	every one of us is a criminal . 
believe none of us . 	don’t believe any of us . 
go thy ways to a nunnery . 	hurry to a convent . 
where’s your father ? 	where’s your father ? 
at home ,  my lord . 	he’s at home ,  my lord . 
let the doors be shut upon him ,  that he may play the fool no where but in ’s own house . 	lock him in ,  so he can play the fool in his own home only . 
farewell . 	good - bye . 
o ,  help him ,  you sweet heavens ! 	oh ,  dear God ,  please help him ! 
get thee to a nunnery ,  go . 	get yourself to a convent ,  at once . 
farewell . 	good - bye . 
farewell . 	good - bye . 
heavenly powers ,  restore him ! 	dear God ,  please make him normal again ! 
I have heard of your paintings too ,  well enough . 	I’ve heard all about you women and your cosmetics too . 
god has given you one face and you make yourselves another . 	god gives you one face ,  but you paint another on top of it . 
you jig and amble ,  and you lisp ,  you nickname God’s creatures and make your wantonness your ignorance . 	you dance and prance and lisp; you call God’s creations by pet names ,  and you excuse your sexpot ploys by pleading ignorance . 
go to ,  I’ll no more on ’t . 	come on ,  I won’t stand for it anymore . 
It hath made me mad . 	It’s driven me crazy . 
I say ,  we will have no more marriages . 	I hereby declare we will have no more marriage . 
those that are married already ,  all but one ,  shall live . 	whoever is already married (except one person I know) will stay married—all but one person . 
the rest shall keep as they are . 	everyone else will have to stay single . 
to a nunnery ,  go . 	get yourself to a convent ,  fast . 
love ? 	love ? 
his affections do not that way tend . 	his feelings don’t move in that direction . 
haply the seas and countries different With variable objects shall expel This something - settled matter in his heart ,  Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus From fashion of himself . 	with any luck ,  the sea and new countries will push out these thoughts that have somehow taken root in his mind . 
what think you on ’t ? 	what do you think of this plan ? 
It shall do well . 	It should work . 
but yet do I believe The origin and commencement of his grief Sprung from neglected love . —How now ,  Ophelia ? 	but I still believe that his madness was caused by unrequited love . —Hello ,  Ophelia . 
you need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said . 	you don’t have to tell us what Lord Hamlet said . 
let her be round with him ,  And I’ll be placed ,  so please you ,  in the ear Of all their conference . 	I’ll hide and listen in . 
If she find him not ,  To England send him or confine him where Your wisdom best shall think . 	If she can’t find out what his secret is ,  then send him off to England or wherever you think best . 
It shall be so . 	that’s how we’ll do it ,  then . 
If there be any good thing to be done That may to thee do ease and grace to me ,  Speak to me . 	If there’s any good deed I can do that will bring you peace and me honor ,  speak to me . 
or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life Extorted treasure in the womb of earth ,  For which ,  they say ,  you spirits oft walk in death ,  Speak of it . 	or if you’ve got some buried treasure somewhere ,  which they say often makes ghosts restless ,  then tell us about it . 
stay and speak ! 	stay and speak ! 
stop it ,  Marcellus . 	keep it from leaving ,  Marcellus . 
shall I strike at it with my partisan ? 	should I strike it with my spear ? 
do ,  if it will not stand . 	yes ,  if it doesn’t stand still . 
tis here . 	It’s over here . 
tis here . 	there it is . 
tis gone . 	It’s gone . 
It was about to speak when the cock crew . 	It was about to say something when the rooster crowed . 
speak the speech ,  I pray you ,  as I pronounced it to you ,  trippingly on the tongue . 	perform the speech just as I taught you ,  musically and smoothly . 
oh ,  it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig - pated fellow tear a passion to tatters ,  to very rags ,  to split the ears of the groundlings ,  who for the most part are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb - shows and noise . 	I hate it when I hear a blustery actor in a wig tear a passion to shreds ,  bursting everyone’s eardrums so as to impress the audience on the lower levels of the playhouse ,  who for the most part can only appreciate loud noises and pantomime shows . 
I would have such a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant . 	I would whip a guy for making a tyrant sound too tyrannical . 
pray you ,  avoid it . 	please avoid doing that . 
I warrant your honor . 	I will ,  sir . 
be not too tame neither ,  but let your own discretion be your tutor . 	but don’t be too tame ,  either—let your good sense guide you . 
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us ,  sir . 	I hope we’ve corrected that fault pretty well in our company ,  sir . 
o ,  reform it altogether ! 	oh ,  correct it completely . 
and let those that play your clowns speak no more than is set down for them ,  for there be of them that will themselves laugh to set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh too ,  though in the meantime some necessary question of the play be then to be considered . 	make sure that the clowns do not ad - lib ,  since some of them will make certain dumb audience members laugh mindlessly at them ,  while an important issue in the play needs to be addressed . 
and the queen too ,  and that presently . 	yes ,  he will ,  and the queen as well . 
bid the players make haste . 	tell the actors to hurry . 
will you two help to hasten them ? 	will you two help them get ready ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
what ho ,  Horatio ! 	well ,  hello there ,  Horatio ! 
here ,  sweet lord ,  at your service . 	here I am at your service ,  my dear lord . 
horatio ,  thou art e'en as just a man As e'er my conversation coped withal . 	horatio ,  you’re the best man I’ve ever known . 
o my dear lord—   Nay ,  do not think I flatter . 	oh ,  sir— Don’t think I’m flattering you . 
for what advancement may I hope from thee That no revenue hast but thy good spirits ,  To feed and clothe thee ? 	what could I hope to get from you ,  who’ve got nothing but your charm to support you in life ? 
why should the poor be flattered ? 	why would anyone flatter a poor person ? 
no ,  let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp ,  And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee Where thrift may follow fawning . 	no ,  keep flattery for kissing the hands of those who can pay well . 
dost thou hear ? 	you understand ? 
since my dear soul was mistress of her choice And could of men distinguish ,  her election Hath sealed thee for herself ,  for thou hast been— As one in suffering all that suffers nothing— A man that Fortune’s buffets and rewards Hast ta'en with equal thanks . 	ever since I’ve been a free agent in my choice of friends ,  I’ve chosen you because you take everything life hands you with calm acceptance ,  grateful for both good and bad . 
give him heedful note . 	watch him closely . 
they are coming to the play . 	they’re coming . 
I must be idle . 	I can’t talk now . 
get you a place . 	take your seat . 
how fares our cousin Hamlet ? 	so how’s my nephew Hamlet doing ? 
excellent ,  i' faith ,  of the chameleon’s dish . 	wonderful ! 
I eat the air ,  promise - crammed . 	I eat the air ,  like chameleons do . 
you cannot feed capons so . 	I’m positively stuffed with air ,  I eat so much of it . 
I have nothing with this answer ,  Hamlet . 	I have no idea what you’re talking about ,  Hamlet . 
these words are not mine . 	you’re not answering my question . 
no ,  nor mine now . 	mine ,  neither . 
that did I ,  my lord ,  and was accounted a good actor . 	Indeed I did ,  my lord . 
what did you enact ? 	what role did you play ? 
I did enact Julius Caesar . 	I played Julius Caesar . 
I was killed i' th' Capitol . 	I was killed in the Capitol . 
brutus killed me . 	brutus killed me . 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
they stay upon your patience . 	they’re ready whenever you are . 
no ,  good mother . 	no thanks ,  my good mother . 
here’s metal more attractive . 	there’s a nicer piece of work right here . 
lady ,  shall I lie in your lap ? 	my lady ,  should I lie in your lap ? 
no ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
I mean ,  my head upon your lap ? 	I mean ,  with my head in your lap ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
do you think I meant country matters ? 	did you think I was talking about sex ? 
what is ,  my lord ? 	what is ,  my lord ? 
nothing . 	nothing . 
you are merry ,  my lord . 	you’re in a good mood tonight ,  my lord . 
who ,  I ? 	who ,  me ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
o God ,  your only jig - maker . 	oh God—who is ,  by the way ,  the best comic of them all . 
what should a man do but be merry ? 	what can you do but be happy ? 
for ,  look you ,  how cheerfully my mother looks ,  and my father died within these two hours . 	look how cheerful my mother is ,  only two hours after my father died . 
nay ,  ’tis twice two months ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord ,  it’s been four months . 
so long ? 	as long as that ? 
nay then ,  let the devil wear black ,  for I’ll have a suit of sables . 	I’ll get myself a fur - trimmed suit . 
then there’s hope a great man’s memory may outlive his life half a year . 	In that case ,  there’s reason to hope a man’s memory may outlive him by six months . 
but ,  by 'r Lady ,  he must build churches then ,  or else shall he suffer not thinking on ,  with the hobby - horse ,  whose epitaph is  “ For ,  oh ,  for ,  oh ,  the hobby - horse is forgot .  ”       What means this ,  my lord ? 	but he’s got to build churches for that to happen ,  my lady ,  or else he’ll have to put up with being forgotten ,  like the hobby - horse in the popular song that goes ,   “ Heigh - ho ,  heigh - ho ,  the hobby - horse is forgotten .  ”    What does this mean ,  my lord ? 
marry ,  this is miching	this means we’re having some mischievous fun . 
belike this show imports the argument of the play . 	this pantomime was probably a summary of the play . 
we shall know by this fellow . 	this guy will tell us everything . 
the players cannot keep counsel . 	actors can’t keep a secret . 
they’ll tell all . 	they’ll tell all . 
will he tell us what this show meant ? 	will he tell us what that pantomime meant ? 
ay ,  or any show that you will show him . 	sure ,  or anything else you show him . 
be not you ashamed to show ,  he’ll not shame to tell you what it means . 	as long as you aren’t ashamed to show it ,  he won’t be ashamed to tell you what it means . 
you are naught ,  you are naught . 	you’re naughty . 
I’ll mark the play . 	I’m watching the play . 
Is this a prologue or the posy of a ring ? 	was that the prologue or the inscription on some wedding ring ? 
tis brief ,  my lord . 	It was a bit short ,  my lord . 
as woman’s love . 	yes ,  as short as a woman’s love . 
madam ,  how like you this play ? 	madam ,  how are you liking this play ? 
the lady protests too much ,  methinks . 	the lady’s overdoing it ,  I think . 
oh ,  but she’ll keep her word . 	oh ,  but she’ll keep her word . 
Is there no offense in ’t ? 	Is there anything offensive in it ? 
no offense i' th' world . 	not offensive at all . 
what do you call the play ? 	what’s the play called ? 
It faded on the crowing of the cock . 	yes ,  it faded away when the rooster crowed . 
do you consent we shall acquaint him with it ,  As needful in our loves ,  fitting our duty ? 	don’t you agree that we owe it to him to tell him about this ,  out of duty and love ? 
I could interpret between you and your love ,  if I could see the puppets dallying . 	I could even supply the dialogue between you and your lover if you did your little puppet show of love for me . 
come ,   “ The croaking raven doth bellow for revenge— ” 	we’re all waiting for the revenge ! 
the story is extant ,  and writ in choice Italian . 	the original story was written in the finest Italian . 
you shall see anon how the murderer gets the love of Gonzago’s wife . 	you’ll see shortly how the murderer wins the love of Gonzago’s wife . 
the king rises . 	the king is getting up . 
what ,  frighted with false fire ? 	what—is he scared of a gun that only fired a blank ? 
how fares my lord ? 	my lord ,  how are you feeling ? 
give me some light ,  away ! 	get me out of here ! 
lights ,  lights ,  lights ! 	lights ,  lights ,  get us some lights ! 
a whole one ,  I . 	no ,  a whole share for me . 
didst perceive ? 	did you notice ? 
very well ,  my lord . 	yes ,  I did ,  my lord . 
upon the talk of the poisoning ? 	when the actors were talking about poison ? 
I did very well note him . 	I watched him very closely . 
ah ha ! 	ah ha ! 
come ,  some music ! 	hey ,  let’s have some music here ! 
come ,  the recorders ! 	play your flutes ! 
come ,  some music ! 	come on ,  music ! 
good my lord ,  vouchsafe me a word with you . 	my lord ,  could I have a word with you ? 
sir ,  a whole history . 	you can have a whole story ,  not just a word . 
the king ,  sir— Ay ,  sir ,  what of him ? 	sir ,  the king— Yes ,  what about him ? 
Is in his retirement marvelous distempered . 	he’s in his chambers now ,  and he’s extremely upset . 
I am tame ,  sir . 	I’ll be good ,  sir . 
pronounce . 	go ahead . 
the queen your mother ,  in most great affliction of spirit ,  hath sent me to you . 	the queen your mother is upset ,  and sent me to see you . 
you are welcome . 	It’s lovely to see you . 
nay ,  good my lord ,  this courtesy is not of the right breed . 	no ,  my lord ,  your polite words are not to the point . 
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer ,  I will do your mother’s commandment . 	If you could please stop fooling around ,  I’ll tell you what your mother wants . 
If not ,  your pardon and my return shall be the end of my business . 	If not ,  I’ll leave you alone and that’ll be the end of my business . 
sir ,  I cannot . 	sir ,  I can’t . 
what ,  my lord ? 	can’t what ,  my lord ? 
make you a wholesome answer . 	stop fooling around . 
my wit’s diseased . 	my mind is confused . 
therefore no more but to the matter . 	okay ,  to the point . 
o wonderful son that can so ’stonish a mother ! 	oh ,  what a wonderful son ,  I can impress my mother ! 
but is there no sequel at the heels of this mother’s admiration ? 	but what’s the upshot of her admiration ? 
Impart . 	do tell . 
she desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed . 	she wants to have a word with you in her bedroom before you go to bed . 
we shall obey ,  were she ten times our mother . 	I’d obey even if she were my mother ten times over . 
have you any further trade with us ? 	Is there anything else I can do for you ? 
my lord ,  you once did love me . 	my lord ,  you used to like me . 
and do still ,  by these pickers and stealers . 	and still do ,  I swear by my hands . 
good my lord ,  what is your cause of distemper ? 	my lord ,  what’s wrong with you ? 
sir ,  I lack advancement . 	sir ,  I have no future ahead of me . 
how can that be ,  when you have the voice of the king himself for your succession in Denmark ? 	but how can you say that ,  when the king himself says you’re the heir to the Danish throne ? 
I do not well understand that . 	I don’t really understand what you mean . 
will you play upon this pipe ? 	will you play this recorder ? 
my lord ,  I cannot . 	I can’t ,  my lord . 
I pray you . 	please . 
believe me ,  I cannot . 	I’m serious ,  I can’t . 
I do beseech you . 	I’m begging you . 
I know no touch of it ,  my lord . 	I have no idea how . 
It is as easy as lying . 	oh ,  it’s as easy as lying . 
but these cannot I command to any utterance of harmony . 	but I can’t play a melody . 
you would seem to know my stops . 	I don’t know how . 
sblood ,  do you think I am easier to be played on than a pipe ? 	my God ,  do you think I’m easier to manipulate than a pipe ? 
call me what instrument you will ,  though you can fret me ,  yet you cannot play upon me . 	you can push my buttons ,  but you can’t play me for a fool . 
god bless you ,  sir . 	hello and God bless you ,  sir . 
my lord ,  the queen would speak with you ,  and presently . 	my lord ,  the queen wants to speak with you right away . 
do you see yonder cloud that’s almost in shape of a camel ? 	do you see that cloud up there that looks like a camel ? 
by th' mass ,  and ’tis like a camel indeed . 	by God ,  it does look like a camel . 
methinks it is like a weasel . 	to me it looks like a weasel . 
It is backed like a weasel . 	It does have a back like a weasel’s . 
or like a whale . 	or like a whale . 
very like a whale . 	yes ,  very much like a whale . 
then I will come to my mother by and by . 	I’ll go see my mother soon . 
I will say so . 	I’ll tell her . 
tis now the very witching time of night ,  When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out Contagion to this world . 	this is the time of night when witches come out ,  when graveyards yawn open and the stench of hell seeps out . 
now could I drink hot blood And do such bitter business as the bitter day Would quake to look on . 	I could drink hot blood and do such terrible deeds that people would tremble even in the daylight . 
I will speak daggers to her but use none . 	I’ll speak as sharp as a dagger to her ,  but I won’t use one on her . 
my tongue and soul in this be hypocrites . 	and so ,  my words and thoughts will be at odds . 
I like him not ,  nor stands it safe with us To let his madness range . 	I don’t like the way he’s acting ,  and it’s not safe for me to let his insanity get out of control . 
therefore prepare you . 	so get prepared . 
I your commission will forthwith dispatch ,  And he to England shall along with you . 	I’m sending you to England on diplomatic business ,  and Hamlet will go with you . 
the terms of our estate may not endure Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow Out of his lunacies . 	as king ,  I cannot risk the danger he represents as he grows crazier by the hour . 
we will ourselves provide . 	we’ll take care of it . 
the cease of majesty Dies not alone ,  but ,  like a gulf ,  doth draw What’s near it with it . 	when a great leader dies he doesn’t die alone but ,  like a whirlpool ,  draws others with him . 
It is a massy wheel Fixed on the summit of the highest mount ,  To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things Are mortised and adjoined ,  which ,  when it falls ,  Each small annexment ,  petty consequence ,  Attends the boisterous ruin . 	he’s like a huge wheel on the top of the highest mountain whose spokes touch the rim of ten thousand smaller things—when it falls down the mountain ,  every little object goes down with it . 
never alone Did the king sigh ,  but with a general groan . 	whenever a king sighs ,  everyone groans . 
arm you ,  I pray you ,  to this speedy voyage . 	prepare yourself ,  please ,  for this trip . 
for we will fetters put upon this fear ,  Which now goes too free - footed . 	we’ll put a leash on this danger that’s now running wild . 
we will haste us . 	we’ll hurry . 
my lord ,  he’s going to his mother’s closet . 	my lord ,  Hamlet’s going to his mother’s room . 
behind the arras I’ll convey myself To hear the process . 	I’ll hide behind the tapestry to hear what they say . 
I’ll warrant she’ll tax him home . 	I bet she’ll chew him out . 
and ,  as you said (and wisely was it said) 'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother— Since nature makes them partial—should o'erhear The speech ,  of vantage . 	and as you said (and you said it wisely) ,  it’s good to have someone other than a mother listening in on them ,  since she can be too partial to him . 
fare you well ,  my liege . 	goodbye ,  my lord . 
I’ll call upon you ere you go to bed And tell you what I know . 	I’ll stop by before you go to bed ,  and tell you what I’ve heard . 
thanks ,  dear my lord . 	thanks ,  my dear lord . 
It hath the primal eldest curse upon ’t ,  A brother’s murder . 	It has the mark of
so much for him . 	so much for Fortinbras . 
that cannot be ,  since I am still possessed Of those effects for which I did the murder: My crown ,  mine own ambition ,  and my queen . 	that won’t work ,  since I’m still reaping the rewards of that murder: my crown and my queen . 
may one be pardoned and retain th' offense ? 	can a person be forgiven and still keep the fruits of his crime ? 
In the corrupted currents of this world Offense’s gilded hand may shove by justice ,  And oft ’tis seen the wicked prize itself Buys out the law . 	In this wicked world ,  criminals often take the money they stole and use it to buy off the law ,  shoving justice aside . 
but ’tis not so above . 	but not in heaven . 
what can it not ? 	what is there left to do ? 
yet what can it when one can not repent ? 	but it can’t help either ! 
o bosom black as death ! 	my heart’s as black as death . 
o limèd soul that ,  struggling to be free ,  Art more engaged ! 	my soul is stuck to sin ,  and the more it struggles to break free ,  the more it sticks . 
help ,  angels . 	help me ,  angels ! 
make assay . 	c’mon ,  make an effort . 
now might I do it pat . 	I could do it easily now . 
now he is a - praying . 	he’s praying now . 
and now I’ll do ’t . 	and now I’ll do it . 
and so he goes to heaven . 	he’ll come right away . 
and so am I revenged . —That would be scanned . 	I’ll be right here ,  silent . 
and am I then revenged	have you forgotten who I am ? 
no . 	no ,  sit down . 
words without thoughts never to heaven go . 	what are you going to do ? 
he will come straight . 	you won’t kill me ,  will you ? 
conceit in weakest bodies strongest works . 	repent and avoid damnation . 
speak to her ,  Hamlet . 	good night to you . 
to whom do you speak this ? 	who would do that ? 
avoid what is to come . 	what is it ,  Laertes ? 
o Hamlet ,  thou hast cleft my heart in twain . 	what would you like ,  Laertes ? 
good night—but go not to mine uncle’s bed . 	please ,  let me go . 
assume a virtue if you have it not . 	I have to go to England ,  don’t you know that ? 
so ,  again ,  good night . 	what ,  Gertrude ? 
I must be cruel only to be kind . 	how is Hamlet ? 
thus bad begins and worse remains behind . 	oh ,  this is terrible ! 
twere good you let him know ,  For who that’s but a queen ,  fair ,  sober ,  wise ,  Would from a paddock ,  from a bat ,  a gib ,  Such dear concernings hide ? 	his wildness is a threat to all of us—to you ,  to me ,  to everyone . 
let it work ,  For ’tis the sport to have the engineer Hoist with his own petard . 	I’ve gotten it dirty—ashes to ashes ,  and dust to dust . 
you must translate . 	believe what ? 
tis fit we understand them . 	besides ,  you’re a sponge ! 
ah ,  my good lord ,  what have I seen tonight ! 	you think I’m a sponge ,  my lord ? 
how does Hamlet ? 	I’m glad about that . 
o heavy deed ! 	a thing of no importance . 
alas ,  how shall this bloody deed be answered ? 	how dangerous to have this madman on the loose ! 
but ,  like the owner of a foul disease ,  To keep it from divulging ,  let it feed Even on the pith of life . 	but a terminal disease requires extreme treatment ,  or nothing at all . 
where is he gone ? 	but where is he ? 
go seek him out ,  speak fair ,  and bring the body Into the chapel . 	bring him to me . 
safely stowed . 	at dinner . 
what have you done ,  my lord ,  with the dead body ? 	what do you mean by that ? 
tell us where ’tis ,  that we may take it thence And bear it to the chapel . 	where is Polonius ? 
believe what ? 	In heaven . 
but such officers do the king best service in the end . 	so get ready to leave . 
I am glad of it . 	good . 
yet must not we put the strong law on him . 	don’t waste any time . 
without ,  my lord; guarded ,  to know your pleasure . 	I’ll tell him ,  my lord . 
bring him before us . 	go ahead ,  then . 
not where he eats ,  but where he is eaten . 	Is he attacking the heartland of Poland or some frontier ? 
that’s the end . 	In the end I grudgingly consented . 
what dost you mean by this ? 	I hereby grant your request ,  and hope you have a good time . 
therefore prepare thyself . 	so why does it seem so particular to you ? 
the bark is ready and the wind at help ,  Th' associates tend ,  and everything is bent For England . 	so then the Poles won’t be willing to defend it . 
farewell ,  dear mother . 	good - bye ,  sir . 
thy loving father ,  Hamlet . 	start without me . 
my mother . 	my God ! 
do it ,  England ,  For like the hectic in my blood he rages ,  And thou must cure me . 	I have the motivation ,  the willpower ,  the ability ,  and the means to do it . 
I will do ’t ,  my lord . 	I won’t speak to her . 
go softly on . 	she’s insistent . 
they are of Norway ,  sir . 	In fact ,  she’s crazed . 
what says Polonius ? 	what does she want ? 
take thy fair hour ,  Laertes . 	show her in . 
thou know’st ’tis common . 	please just listen . 
ay ,  madam ,  it is common . 	oh ,  ho ! 
god be wi' you ,  sir . 	may God be at your table . 
go a little before . 	come ,  driver ! 
what is a man If his chief good and market of his time Be but to sleep and feed ? 	good night ,  ladies ,  good night ,  sweet ladies ,  good night ,  good night . 
a beast ,  no more . 	follow her . 
I will not speak with her . 	listen ! 
what would she have ? 	what is it ? 
where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark ? 	where’s this so - called king ? 
nay ,  but ,  Ophelia— Pray you ,  mark . 	please wait . 
how do you ,  pretty lady ? 	thank you . 
god be at your table . 	let him go ,  Gertrude . 
conceit upon her father . 	where’s my father ? 
how long hath she been thus ? 	he’s dead . 
we must be patient ,  but I cannot choose but weep ,  to think they should lay him i' th' cold ground . 	don’t mess with me . 
oh ,  this is the poison of deep grief . 	only my free will—nothing else . 
poor Ophelia Divided from herself and her fair judgment ,  Without the which we are pictures ,  or mere beasts . 	do you want to know who they are ,  then ? 
alack ,  what noise is this ? 	what’s that noise ? 
I pray you ,  give me leave . 	please remember ,  love . 
do not fear our person . 	It’s not manly . 
conscience and grace ,  to the profoundest pit ! 	and you’re right to do so . 
I dare damnation . 	please ,  come with me . 
who shall stay you ? 	who are the people who want to speak with me ? 
my will ,  not all the world . 	sailors ,  sir . 
and for my means ,  I’ll husband them so well ,  They shall go far with little . 	they say they have letters for you . 
will you know them then ? 	show them in . 
how now ? 	hello ,  sir . 
what noise is that ? 	god bless you . 
tears seven times salt ,  Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye ! 	may He bless you ,  too . 
by heaven ,  thy madness shall be paid by weight ,  Till our scale turn the beam . 	he will ,  sir ,  if He wants to . 
you must sing  This nothing’s more than matter . 	I have a lot to tell you about them . 
there’s rosemary ,  that’s for remembrance . 	good - bye . 
nay ,  it is . 	It looks that way . 
do you see this ,  O God ? 	I didn’t see them . 
laertes ,  I must commune with your grief ,  Or you deny me right . 	laertes ,  I want you to hear what they say . 
let this be so . 	what does this mean ? 
so you shall . 	do you recognize the handwriting ? 
seafaring men ,  sir . 	naked ,  ”  he says . 
let them come in . 	and in a P . S . 
let him bless thee too . 	but let him come . 
fare - well . 	that’ll be fine . 
now must your conscience my acquaintance seal ,  And you must put me in your heart for friend ,  Sith you have heard ,  and with a knowing ear ,  That he which hath your noble father slain Pursued my life . 	all your talents and gifts didn’t arouse as much envy from him as this one quality did ,  though to me it’s far from your best attribute . 
It well appears . 	what quality is that ,  my lord ? 
letters ,  my lord ,  from Hamlet . 	yes ,  from Normandy . 
sailors ,  my lord ,  they say . 	yes ,  that’s the one . 
I saw them not . 	I know him well . 
he received them Of him that brought them . 	he’s his homeland’s jewel . 
how otherwise ? — Will you be ruled by me ? 	how could you ask ? 
he is the brooch indeed And gem of all the nation . 	that’s the right answer—it shows your love . 
why ask you this ? 	let’s go . 
and nothing is at a like goodness still . 	damn it ! 
but ,  good Laertes ,  Will you do this ,  keep close within your chamber . 	but wait ,  what’s that sound ? 
I will do ’t . 	drowned ? 
therefore this project	so she is drowned . 
be as ourself in Denmark . —Madam ,  come . 	let’s follow him ,  Gertrude . 
come away . 	let’s follow him . 
one woe doth tread upon another’s heel ,  So fast they follow . —Your sister’s drowned ,  Laertes . 	here’s the water ,  right ? 
alas ,  then she is drowned . 	Is that how the law sees it ? 
but yet It is our trick . 	It sure is . 
let’s follow ,  Gertrude . 	the coroner’s inquest law . 
how much I had to do to calm his rage ! 	do you want to know the truth ? 
now fear I this will give it start again . 	well there ,  now you’ve said it . 
therefore let’s follow . 	come on ,  shovel . 
Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she willfully seeks her own salvation ? 	they keep up Adam’s profession . 
the crowner hath sat on her and finds it Christian burial . 	what ,  aren’t you a Christian ? 
how can that be ,  unless she drowned herself in her own defense ? 	I’ll ask you another question . 
It must be  Nay ,  but hear you ,  Goodman Delver— Give me leave . 	If you can’t answer it— Go ahead ! 
but is this law ? 	but how ? 
ay ,  marry ,  is ’t . 	ah ,  I’ve got it ! 
crowner’s quest law . 	go ahead . 
come ,  my spade . 	now go and get me some booze . 
why ,  he had none . 	yes ,  exactly . 
marry ,  now I can tell . 	Indeed ,  my lord . 
has this fellow no feeling of his business ? 	exactly . 
he sings at grave -  making . 	there’s another . 
that skull had a tongue in it and could sing once . 	could that be a lawyer’s skull ? 
It might ,  my lord . 	no more than that ,  my lord . 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord ,  and calfskin too . 
mine ache to think on ’t . 	It’s mine ,  sir . 
not a jot more ,  my lord . 	for no man ,  sir . 
I will speak to this fellow . —Whose grave’s this ,  sirrah ? 	how literal this guy is ! 
you lie out on ’t ,  sir ,  and therefore it is not yours . 	you don’t know that ? 
tis for the dead ,  not for the quick . 	he’ll recover his sanity there . 
therefore thou liest . 	why not ? 
what man dost thou dig it for ? 	what do you mean ,   “ in a strange way ”  ? 
what woman ,  then ? 	on what grounds ? 
the age is grown so picked that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls his kibe . —How long hast thou been a grave - maker ? 	how long will a man lie in his grave before he starts to rot ? 
of all the days i' the year ,  I came to ’t that day that our last King Hamlet overcame Fortinbras . 	a leathermaker will last nine years . 
ay ,  marry ,  why was he sent into England ? 	whose was it ? 
why ,  because he was mad . 	a crazy bastard . 
why ? 	who do you think ? 
twill not be seen in him there . 	I really don’t know . 
how came he mad ? 	damn that crazy madman ! 
how  “ strangely ”  ? 	this one ? 
faith ,  e'en with losing his wits . 	yes ,  that one . 
why he more than another ? 	are you sad about that ? 
let me see . 	horatio ,  tell me something . 
that he might not beteem the winds of heaven Visit her face too roughly . —Heaven and earth ,  Must I remember ? 	oh God ,  do I have to remember that ? 
why ,  she would hang on him As if increase of appetite had grown By what it fed on ,  and yet ,  within a month— Let me not think on ’t . 	she would hang on to him ,  and the more she was with him the more she wanted to be with him; she couldn’t get enough of him . 
within a month ,  Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears Had left the flushing in her gallèd eyes ,  She married . 	less than a month after my father’s death ,  even before the tears on her cheeks had dried ,  she remarried . 
It is not nor it cannot come to good ,  But break ,  my heart ,  for I must hold my tongue . 	that’s not good ,  and no good can come of it either . 
hail to your lordship . 	hello ,  sir . 
I am glad to see you well . — Horatio ? 	nice to see you again ,  Horatio—that is your name ,  right ? 
or I do forget myself ? 	that’s me ,  sir . 
sir ,  my good friend ,  I’ll change that name with you . 	I’ll change that name for you . 
my good lord . 	hello ,  sir . 
what’s that ,  my lord ? 	what’s that ,  my lord ? 
dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i' th' earth ? 	do you think Alexander the Great looked like this when he was buried ? 
e'en so . 	exactly like that . 
and smelt so ? 	and smelled like that ,  too ? 
pah ! 	whew ! 
e'en so ,  my lord . 	just as bad ,  my lord . 
to what base uses we may return ,  Horatio . 	how low we can fall ,  Horatio . 
why may not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it stopping a bunghole ? 	Isn’t it possible to imagine that the noble ashes of Alexander the Great could end up plugging a hole in a barrel ? 
twere to consider too curiously ,  to consider so . 	If you thought that you’d be thinking too much . 
no ,  faith ,  not a jot . 	no ,  not at all . 
Imperious Caesar ,  dead and turned to clay ,  Might stop a hole to keep the wind away . 	the great emperor Caesar ,  dead and turned to clay ,  might plug up a hole to keep the wind away . 
oh ,  that that earth ,  which kept the world in awe ,  Should patch a wall t' expel the winter’s flaw ! 	oh ,  to think that the same body that once ruled the world could now patch up a wall ! 
but soft ,  but soft a while . 	but quiet ,  be quiet a minute . 
here comes the king ,  The queen ,  the courtiers—who is this they follow ,  And with such maimèd rites ? 	here comes the king ,  the queen ,  and the noblemen of court . 
this doth betoken The corse they follow did with desperate hand Fordo its own life . 	who are they following ? 
couch we a while and mark . 	let’s stay and watch a while . 
what ceremony else ? 	what other rites are you going to give her ? 
for charitable prayers Shards ,  flints and pebbles should be thrown on her . 	she deserves to have rocks and stones thrown on her body . 
yet here she is allowed her virgin crants ,  Her maiden strewments ,  and the bringing home Of bell and burial . 	but she has had prayers read for her and is dressed up like a pure virgin ,  with flowers tossed on her grave and the bell tolling for her . 
must there no more be done ? 	Isn’t there any other rite you can perform ? 
no more be done . 	no ,  nothing . 
we should profane the service of the dead To sing a requiem and such rest to her As to peace - parted souls . 	we would profane the other dead souls here if we sang the same requiem for her that we sang for them . 
lay her i' th' earth ,  And from her fair and unpolluted flesh May violets spring ! 	lay her in the ground ,  and let violets bloom from her lovely and pure flesh ! 
I tell thee ,  churlish priest ,  A ministering angel shall my sister be When thou liest howling . 	I’m telling you ,  you jerk priest ,  my sister will be an angel in heaven while you’re howling in hell . 
sweets to the sweet . 	sweet flowers for a sweet girl . 
farewell ! 	goodbye ! 
oh ,  treble woe Fall ten times treble on that cursèd head ,  Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense Deprived thee of ! 	oh ,  damn three times ,  damn ten times the evil man whose wicked deed deprived you of your ingenious mind . 
hold off the earth awhile Till I have caught her once more in mine arms . 	hold off burying her until I’ve caught her in my arms once more . 
hold off thy hand . 	that’s no way to pray . 
pluck them asunder . 	pull them apart . 
o my son ,  what theme ? 	oh ,  my son ,  what issue is that ? 
I loved Ophelia . 	I loved Ophelia . 
forty thousand brothers Could not with all their quantity of love Make up my sum . 	forty thousand brothers ,  if you added all their love together ,  couldn’t match mine . 
what wilt thou do for her ? 	what are you going to do for her ? 
o ,  he is mad ,  Laertes . 	oh ,  he’s crazy ,  Laertes ! 
for love of God ,  forbear him . 	for the love of God ,  be patient with him . 
swounds ,  show me what thou'lt do . 	damn it ,  show me what you’re going to do for her . 
woo’t weep ? 	will you cry ? 
woo’t fight ? 	fight ? 
woo’t fast ? 	stop eating ? 
woo’t tear thyself ? 	cut yourself ? 
I’ll do ’t . 	I’ll do all that . 
and if thou prate of mountains let them throw Millions of acres on us ,  till our ground ,  Singeing his pate against the burning zone ,  Make Ossa like a wart ! 	and if you rattle on about mountains ,  then let them throw millions of acres over us . 
this is mere madness . 	this is pure insanity . 
and thus a while the fit will work on him . 	he’ll be like this for a little while . 
anon ,  as patient as the female dove When that her golden couplets are disclosed ,  His silence will sit drooping . 	then he’ll be as calm and quiet as a dove waiting for her eggs to hatch . 
I loved you ever . 	I always loved you . 
but it is no matter . 	but it doesn’t matter . 
I pray thee ,  good Horatio ,  wait upon him . 	please ,  Horatio ,  go with him . 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
long live the king ! 	no ,  who are  Long live the king ! 
barnardo ? 	Is that Barnardo ? 
he . 	yes ,  it’s me . 
you come most carefully upon your hour . 	you’ve come right on time . 
tis now struck twelve . 	the clock’s just striking twelve . 
get thee to bed ,  Francisco . 	go home to bed ,  Francisco . 
for this relief much thanks . 	thanks for letting me go . 
tis bitter cold ,  And I am sick at heart . 	It’s bitterly cold out ,  and I’m depressed . 
have you had quiet guard ? 	has it been a quiet night ? 
not a mouse stirring . 	I haven’t even heard a mouse squeak . 
well ,  good night . 	well ,  good night . 
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus ,  The rivals of my watch ,  bid them make haste . 	If you happen to see Horatio and Marcellus ,  who are supposed to stand guard with me tonight ,  tell them to hurry . 
I think I hear them . —Stand ,  ho ! 	I think I hear them . 
so much for this ,  sir . 	that’s enough about that . 
now shall you see the other . 	now I’ll tell you the other story about my journey . 
you do remember all the circumstance ? 	do you remember the circumstances ? 
remember it ,  my lord ? 	how could I forget ,  my lord ! 
sir ,  in my heart there was a kind of fighting That would not let me sleep . 	there was a kind of war in my brain that wouldn’t let me sleep . 
methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes . 	It was worse than being a captive in chains . 
Is ’t possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
I beseech you . 	yes ,  please tell me . 
wilt thou know Th' effect of what I wrote ? 	do you want to know what I wrote ? 
ay ,  good my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
I had my father’s signet in my purse ,  Which was the model of that Danish seal . 	I had my father’s signet ring in my pocket ,  with the royal seal of Denmark on it . 
folded the writ up in form of th' other ,  Subscribed it ,  gave ’t th' impression ,  placed it safely ,  The changeling never known . 	I folded up the new document ,  signed it ,  sealed it ,  and put it safely back so that no one noticed any difference . 
now ,  the next day Was our sea fight ,  and what to this was sequent Thou know’st already . 	the next day we had our fight at sea ,  and you know what happened after that . 
so Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to ’t . 	so Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are in for it . 
why ,  man ,  they did make love to this employment . 	man ,  they were asking for it . 
they are not near my conscience . 	I don’t feel guilty about them at all . 
their defeat Does by their own insinuation grow . 	they got what they deserved . 
tis dangerous when the baser nature comes Between the pass and fell incensèd points Of mighty opposites . 	It’s always dangerous when little people get caught in the crossfire of mighty opponents . 
why ,  what a king is this ! 	what a king Claudius is ! 
is ’t not perfect conscience To quit him with this arm ? 	Isn’t it completely moral to kill him now with this sword—and an easy conscience ? 
and is ’t not to be damned To let this canker of our nature come In further evil ? 	and wouldn’t I be damned if I let this monster live to do more harm ? 
It must be shortly known to him from England What is the issue of the business there . 	he’ll find out soon what happened in England . 
It will be short . 	soon enough . 
the interim’s mine . 	but I have the meantime . 
I’ll court his favors . 	I’ll be nice to him . 
but sure the bravery of his grief did put me Into a towering passion . 	It was just that the showiness of his grief sent me into a fury . 
peace . —Who comes here ? 	hang on a minute—who are you ? 
your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark . 	welcome back to Denmark ,  my lord . 
I humbly thank you ,  sir . 	thank you kindly ,  sir . 
sweet lord ,  if your lordship were at leisure ,  I should impart a thing to you from His Majesty . 	my lord ,  if you have a free moment ,  I have a message from His Majesty . 
I thank your lordship . 	no thank you ,  my lord . 
It is very hot . 	It’s very hot . 
It is indifferent cold ,  my lord ,  indeed . 	It is rather cold ,  indeed ,  my lord . 
but yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion . 	and yet I feel it’s very hot and humid ,  which is bad for my complexion . 
exceedingly ,  my lord . 	yes indeed it is ,  sir . 
It is very sultry—as ’twere—I cannot tell how . 	very humid ,  I can’t tell you how humid it is . 
my lord ,  his majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager on your head . 	my lord ,  His Majesty wanted me to tell you that he’s placed a large bet on you . 
sir ,  this is the matter—  I beseech you ,  remember— Nay ,  good my lord ,  for mine ease ,  in good faith . 	this is what it’s all about— Please ,  I beg you— No ,  my lord ,  I’m comfortable like this ,  thank you . 
sir ,  his definement suffers no perdition in you ,  though I know to divide him inventorially would dizzy th' arithmetic of memory ,  and yet but yaw neither ,  in respect of his quick sail . 	sir ,  your description of him doesn’t detract from his good qualities ,  though I know that trying to list them all would make your head spin ,  and even so you wouldn’t be able to keep up with him . 
a truant disposition ,  good my lord . 	I felt like skipping school ,  sir . 
I would not hear your enemy say so ,  Nor shall you do mine ear that violence ,  To make it truster of your own report Against yourself . 	I wouldn’t allow your enemies to say that ,  and I won’t believe it from you . 
I know you are no truant . 	I know you’d never skip school . 
but what is your affair in Elsinore ? 	what are you doing here in Elsinore ? 
we’ll teach you to drink deep ere you depart . 	I’ll teach you to drink hard by the time you leave . 
my lord ,  I came to see your father’s funeral . 	sir ,  we came to see your father’s funeral . 
I pray thee ,  do not mock me ,  fellow student . 	please ,  don’t make fun of me . 
I think it was to see my mother’s wedding . 	I think you came to see my mother’s wedding instead . 
Indeed ,  my lord ,  it followed hard upon . 	well ,  sir ,  it’s true it came soon after . 
the funeral baked meats Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables . 	the leftovers from the funeral dinner made a convenient wedding banquet . 
would I had met my dearest foe in heaven Or ever I had seen that day ,  Horatio . 	oh ,  I’d rather have met my fiercest enemy in heaven ,  Horatio ,  than have lived through that terrible day ! 
my father—methinks I see my father . 	my father—I think I see my father . 
where ,  my lord ? 	where ,  sir ? 
In my mind’s eye ,  Horatio . 	In my imagination ,  Horatio . 
I saw him once . 	I saw him once . 
he was a goodly king . 	he was an admirable king . 
he was a man . 	he was a great human being . 
take him for all in all . 	he was perfect in everything . 
I shall not look upon his like again . 	I’ll never see the likes of him again . 
your lordship speaks most infallibly of him . 	you speak absolutely correctly ,  sir . 
the concernancy ,  sir ? 	and what’s the point ,  sir ? 
why do we wrap the gentleman in our more rawer breath ? 	why are we talking about him like this ? 
sir ? 	sorry ,  sir ? 
I know you are not ignorant— I would you did ,  sir . 	I know you know something— Thanks for the compliment ,  I’m happy you know that . 
yet in faith ,  if you did ,  it would not much approve me . 	but in fact it doesn’t say much . 
well ,  sir ? 	I’m sorry ,  you were saying ? 
you are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is—	I know you know something about how excellent Laertes is—
I dare not confess that lest I should compare with him in excellence ,  but to know a man well were to know himself . 	I can’t admit that ,  since you’d have to compare his excellence to mine . 
I mean ,  sir ,  for his weapon . 	excellent in fencing ,  I mean ,  sir . 
rapier and dagger . 	the rapier and the dagger . 
that’s two of his weapons . 	those are only two of his weapons . 
but well . 	but ,  go on . 
the king ,  sir ,  hath wagered with him six Barbary horses ,  against the which he has impawned ,  as I take it ,  six French rapiers and poniards with their assigns—as girdle ,  hangers ,  and so . 	the king has bet six Barbary horses ,  and he has prepared six French rapiers and daggers with all their accessories . 
three of the carriages ,  in faith ,  are very dear to fancy ,  very responsive to the hilts ,  most delicate carriages ,  and of very liberal conceit . 	three of the carriages are very imaginatively designed ,  and they match the fencing accessories . 
what call you the carriages ? 	what do you mean by  “ carriages ”  ? 
the carriages ,  sir ,  are the hangers . 	the carriages ,  sir ,  are the hangers—where the swords hang . 
the phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could carry cannon by our sides . 	carriage ”  makes it sound like it’s pulling around a cannon . 
I would it might be hangers till then . 	I prefer to call it a  “ hanger .  ”  But anyway . 
but ,  on: six Barbary horses against six French swords ,  their assigns ,  and three liberal - conceited carriages—that’s the French bet against the Danish . 	six Barbary horses ,  six French swords with accessories ,  and three imaginatively designed carriages—sounds like a French bet against the Danish . 
why is this  “ impawned ,  ”  as you call it ? 	why has all this been put on the table ? 
the king ,  sir ,  hath laid that in a dozen passes between yourself and him ,  he shall not exceed you three hits . 	the king ,  sir ,  has bet that in a dozen rounds between you and Laertes ,  he won’t beat you by more than three hits . 
how if I answer  “ No ”  ? 	but what if my answer’s no ? 
If it please His Majesty ,  ’tis the breathing time of day with me . 	It’s my exercise time . 
I commend my duty to your lordship . 	my services are at your command . 
yours ,  yours . 	thank you . 
he does well to commend it himself . 	It’s a good thing he’s here to recommend himself . 
there are no tongues else for ’s turn . 	no one else would . 
he did comply ,  sir ,  with his dug before he sucked it . 	he used to praise his mother’s nipple before he sucked it . 
he sends to know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes ,  or that you will take longer time . 	the king wishes to know if you want to play against him right away ,  or wait awhile . 
I am constant to my purpose . 	I’ll do whatever the king wants . 
they follow the king’s pleasure . 	If he’s ready now ,  so am I . 
If his fitness speaks ,  mine is ready ,  now or whensoever ,  provided I be so able as now . 	otherwise ,  I’ll do it anytime ,  as long as I’m able . 
the king and queen and all are coming down . 	the king and queen are coming down with everyone else . 
In happy time . 	right on cue . 
the queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play . 	the queen wants you to chat with Laertes—politely—before you begin your match . 
she well instructs me . 	she’s full of good advice . 
you will lose this wager ,  my lord . 	you’re going to lose this bet ,  my lord . 
I do not think so . 	I don’t think so . 
since he went into France ,  I have been in continual practice . 	I’ve been practicing fencing constantly since he went off to France . 
I shall win at the odds . 	with the handicap they’ve given me ,  I think I’ll win . 
but thou wouldst not think how ill all’s here about my heart . 	but I have a sinking feeling anyway . 
but it is no matter . 	oh well . 
I will forestall their repair hither and say you are not fit . 	I’ll say you’re not feeling well . 
not a whit . 	you’ll do no such thing . 
we defy augury . 	I thumb my nose at superstitions . 
If it be not to come ,  it will be now . 	what’s important is to be prepared . 
since no man of aught he leaves knows ,  what is ’t to leave betimes ? 	since nobody knows anything about what he leaves behind ,  then what does it mean to leave early ? 
let be . 	let it be . 
come ,  Hamlet ,  come ,  and take this hand from me . 	come shake hands with Laertes ,  Hamlet . 
but in my terms of honor I stand aloof ,  and will no reconcilement Till by some elder masters ,  of known honor ,  I have a voice and precedent of peace To keep my name ungored . 	I will accept no apology until experts in matters of honor show me how to make peace with you without staining my own reputation in doing so . 
come ,  one for me . 	yes ,  hand me one too . 
I’ll be your foil ,  Laertes . 	I’m going to make you look sharp ,  Laertes . 
you mock me ,  sir . 	you’re making fun of me . 
no ,  by this hand . 	no ,  I swear I’m not . 
very well ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord ,  quite well . 
your grace hath laid the odds o' th' weaker side . 	you’ve bet on the weaker fencer . 
I have seen you both . 	I’ve seen both of you fence . 
but since he is better we have therefore odds . 	but since Laertes is better ,  we’ve given him a handicap . 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
set me the stoups of wine upon that table . 	put the goblets of wine on that table . 
If Hamlet give the first or second hit Or quit in answer of the third exchange ,  Let all the battlements their ordnance fire ! 	If Hamlet makes the first or second hit ,  or gets back at Laertes by making the third hit ,  then let my soldiers give him a military salute . 
the king shall drink to Hamlet’s better breath ,  And in the cup an union shall he throw Richer than that which four successive kings In Denmark’s crown have worn . 	I’ll drink to Hamlet’s health ,  and into his goblet I’ll drop a pearl even more costly than those in the crowns of the last four Danish kings . 
give me the cups . 	give me the goblets . 
come on ,  sir . 	come on ,  sir . 
come ,  my lord . 	come on ,  my lord . 
one . 	that was one hit . 
no . 	no ,  it wasn’t . 
judgment ? 	referee ! 
a hit ,  a very palpable hit . 	It was obviously a hit . 
well ,  again . 	well ,  let’s go on . 
stay ,  give me drink . —Hamlet ,  this pearl is thine . 	give me a goblet . —Hamlet ,  this pearl’s yours . 
here’s to thy health . 	here’s to your health . 
give him the cup . 	give him the goblet . 
set it by a while . 	set it down awhile . 
come . 	let’s play . 
another hit . 	another hit . 
what say you ? 	what do you say ? 
a touch ,  a touch ,  I do confess ’t . 	you got me ,  I admit it . 
our son shall win . 	my son will win . 
he’s fat ,  and scant of breath . — Here ,  Hamlet ,  take my napkin ,  rub thy brows . 	he’s flabby and out of breath . —Here ,  Hamlet ,  take my handkerchief and wipe your forehead . 
the queen carouses to thy fortune ,  Hamlet . 	the queen drinks to your good luck and happiness ,  Hamlet . 
good madam . 	thank you ,  madam . 
gertrude ,  do not drink . 	gertrude ,  don’t drink that . 
I will ,  my lord . 	excuse me . 
I pray you ,  pardon me . 	I’ll drink it if I like . 
I dare not drink yet ,  madam . 	I’d better not drink now . 
by and by . 	I’ll drink later . 
come ,  let me wipe thy face . 	come on ,  let me wipe your face . 
I do not think ’t . 	I doubt it . 
come ,  for the third ,  Laertes . 	get ready for the third hit ,  Laertes . 
you do but dally . 	you’re just playing around . 
I pray you ,  pass with your best violence . 	come on ,  give me your best shot . 
I am afeard you make a wanton of me . 	I sense you’re treating me like a child . 
say you so ? 	you think so ? 
come on . 	come on . 
have at you now ! 	take this ! 
part them ! 	separate them . 
they are incensed . 	they’re overdoing it . 
nay ,  come ,  again . 	no ,  come on ,  one more time . 
look to the queen there ,  ho ! 	take care of the queen ! 
they bleed on both sides . —How is it ,  my lord ? 	both fencers are bleeding—how do you feel ,  my lord ? 
how is ’t ,  Laertes ? 	how do you feel ,  Laertes ? 
why ,  as a woodcock to mine own springe ,  Osric . 	like a mouse caught in my own trap ,  Osric . 
how does the queen ? 	how’s the queen ? 
she swoons to see them bleed . 	she fainted at the sight of them bleeding . 
the drink ,  the drink ! 	the drink ,  the drink ! 
I am poisoned . 	I’ve been poisoned . 
o villainy ! 	oh ,  what evil ! 
ho ,  let the door be locked . 	lock the door . 
treachery ! 	we’ve been betrayed ! 
seek it out . 	find out who did it ! 
It is here ,  Hamlet . 	I’m the one ,  Hamlet . 
hamlet ,  thou art slain . 	hamlet ,  you’re dead . 
no medicine in the world can do thee good . 	no medicine in the world can cure you . 
In thee there is not half an hour of life . 	you don’t have more than half an hour to live . 
the treacherous instrument is in thy hand ,  Unbated and envenomed . 	the treacherous weapon is right in your hand ,  sharp and dipped in poison . 
the foul practice Hath turned itself on me . 	the foul plan backfired on me . 
lo ,  here I lie ,  Never to rise again . 	here I lie and will never get up again . 
thy mother’s poisoned . 	your mother’s been poisoned . 
I can no more . 	I can’t speak anymore . 
the king ,  the king’s to blame . 	the king ,  the king’s to blame . 
the point envenomed too ! —Then ,  venom ,  to thy work . 	then get to work ,  poison ! 
my lord ,  I think I saw him yesternight . 	sir ,  I think I saw him last night . 
saw who ? 	saw who ? 
the king my father ?  ! 	the king my father ?  ! 
season your admiration for a while With an attent ear ,  till I may deliver ,  Upon the witness of these gentlemen ,  This marvel to you . 	just listen carefully while I tell you the amazing thing I saw ,  with these gentlemen as witnesses . 
for God’s love ,  let me hear . 	for God’s sake ,  let me hear it . 
two nights together had these gentlemen ,  Marcellus and Barnardo ,  on their watch ,  In the dead waste and middle of the night ,  Been thus encountered: a figure like your father ,  Armed at point exactly ,  cap - à - pie ,  Appears before them and with solemn march Goes slow and stately by them . 	after midnight ,  for two nights running ,  these two guards ,  Marcellus and Barnardo ,  saw a figure that looked very much like your father ,  in full armor from head to toe . 
thrice he walked By their oppressed and fear - surprisèd eyes Within his truncheon’s length ,  whilst they ,  distilled Almost to jelly with the act of fear ,  Stand dumb and speak not to him . 	It just appeared before them and marched past them with slow dignity three times ,  a staff’s distance from their amazed eyes ,  while they turned ,  quaking with fear and too shocked to speak . 
I knew your father . 	I knew your father . 
but where was this ? 	but where did this happen ? 
treason ! 	treason ! 
treason ! 	treason ! 
o ,  yet defend me ,  friends . 	protect me ,  my friends . 
I am but hurt . 	I’ve only been hurt ,  not killed . 
here ,  thou incestuous ,  murderous ,  damnèd Dane ,  Drink off this potion . 	here ,  you goddamn incest - breeding Danish murderer ,  drink this . 
Is thy union here ? 	Is your little pearl in there ? 
follow my mother . 	follow my mother . 
he is justly served . 	he got what he deserved . 
It is a poison tempered by himself . 	he mixed that poison himself . 
exchange forgiveness with me ,  noble Hamlet . 	please forgive me as I forgive you ,  Hamlet . 
mine and my father’s death come not upon thee ,  Nor thine on me . 	you’re not responsible for my death and my father’s ,  and I’m not responsible for yours . 
heaven make thee free of it . 	god will free you from blame . 
thou livest . 	you’re alive . 
never believe it . 	not for a second . 
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane . 	I’m more like an ancient Roman than a corrupt modern Dane . 
here’s yet some liquor left . 	some of this liquor’s still left in the goblet . 
as thou'rt a man ,  Give me the cup . 	please ,  give me that goblet ,  if you love me . 
let go ! 	let go of it ! 
by heaven ,  I’ll have ’t . 	I’ll get it from you ,  I swear . 
o God ,  Horatio ,  what a wounded name ,  Things standing thus unknown ,  shall live behind me ! 	oh God ,  Horatio ,  what a damaged reputation I’m leaving behind me ,  as no one knows the truth . 
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart Absent thee from felicity a while ,  And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain To tell my story . 	If you ever loved me ,  then please postpone the sweet relief of death awhile ,  and stay in this harsh world long enough to tell my story . 
what warlike noise is this ? 	what are these warlike noises ? 
young Fortinbras ,  with conquest come from Poland ,  To th' ambassadors of England gives This warlike volley . 	young Fortinbras ,  returning in triumph from Poland ,  is firing his guns to greet the English ambassadors . 
o ,  I die ,  Horatio . 	oh ,  I’m dying ,  Horatio ! 
the potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit . 	this strong poison’s overpowering me . 
I cannot live to hear the news from England . 	I will not live to hear the news from England . 
but I do prophesy the election lights On Fortinbras . 	but I bet Fortinbras will win the election to the Danish crown . 
he has my dying voice . 	he’s got my vote as I die . 
o ,  O ,  O ,  O . 	oh ,  oh ,  oh ,  oh . 
where is this sight ? 	what do I see here ? 
what is it ye would see ? 	what would you like to see ? 
this quarry cries on havoc . 	these corpses suggest mayhem . 
o proud death ,  What feast is toward in thine eternal cell ,  That thou so many princes at a shot So bloodily hast struck ? 	oh ,  proud Death ,  what banquet are you preparing that you’ve needed to knock off so many princes at one stroke ? 
the sight is dismal ,  And our affairs from England come too late . 	this is a horrible sight . 
the ears are senseless that should give us hearing ,  To tell him his commandment is fulfilled ,  That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead . 	we meant to tell the king that his orders have been carried out ,  and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead . 
had it th' ability of life to thank you . 	who will thank us now ? 
for me ,  with sorrow I embrace my fortune . 	as for me ,  I welcome my good luck with sadness . 
let four captains Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage ,  For he was likely ,  had he been put on ,  To have proved most royally . 	let four captains carry Hamlet like a soldier onto the stage . 
and ,  for his passage ,  The soldiers' music and the rites of war Speak loudly for him . 	military music and military rites will speak for his heroic qualities . 
take up the bodies . 	pick up the corpses . 
my lord ,  upon the platform where we watch . 	on the platform where we stand guard ,  sir . 
did you not speak to it ? 	didn’t you talk to it ? 
my lord ,  I did ,  But answer made it none . 	I did ,  sir ,  but it didn’t answer me . 
tis very strange . 	that’s very strange . 
as I do live ,  my honored lord ,  ’tis true . 	I swear to God it’s true ,  sir . 
and we did think it writ down in our duty To let you know of it . 	we thought you ought to know about it . 
Indeed ,  indeed ,  sirs ,  but this troubles me . 	yes ,  I should know ,  but it disturbs me . 
hold you the watch tonight ? 	are you on duty again tonight ? 
we do ,  my lord . 	yes ,  sir . 
armed ,  say you ? 	It was armed ,  you say ? 
armed ,  my lord . 	armed ,  sir . 
from top to toe ? 	from head to toe ? 
my lord ,  from head to foot . 	yes ,  from top to bottom ,  sir . 
then saw you not his face ? 	so you couldn’t see his face ,  then ? 
oh yes ,  my lord . 	oh ,  yes ,  we could ,  sir . 
he wore his beaver up . 	he had his helmet visor up . 
pale or red ? 	was he pale or flushed and red - faced ? 
nay ,  very pale . 	very pale ,  sir . 
and fixed his eyes upon you ? 	did he stare at you ? 
most constantly . 	the whole time . 
I would I had been there . 	I wish I’d been there . 
stayed it long ? 	did it stay a long time ? 
while one with moderate haste might tell a hundred . 	about as long as it would take someone to count slowly to a hundred . 
longer ,  longer . 	no ,  longer than that . 
not when I saw ’t . 	not the time I saw it . 
his beard was grizzled ,  no ? 	his beard was gray ,  right ? 
It was ,  as I have seen it in his life ,  A sable silvered . 	It was just like in real life ,  dark brown with silver whiskers in it . 
I will watch tonight . 	I’ll stand guard with you tonight . 
perchance 'Twill walk again . 	maybe it’ll come again . 
I warrant it will . 	I bet it will . 
If it assume my noble father’s person ,  I’ll speak to it ,  though Hell itself should gape And bid me hold my peace . 	If it looks like my good father ,  I’ll speak to it ,  even if Hell itself opens up and tells me to be quiet . 
I pray you all ,  If you have hitherto concealed this sight ,  Let it be tenable in your silence still . 	I ask you ,  if you’ve kept this a secret ,  keep doing so . 
and whatsoever else shall hap tonight ,  Give it an understanding ,  but no tongue . 	whatever happens tonight ,  don’t talk about it . 
I will requite your loves . 	I’ll return the favor . 
so fare you well . 	so good - bye for now . 
upon the platform ,  ’twixt eleven and twelve ,  I’ll visit you . 	I’ll see you on the guards' platform between eleven and twelve tonight . 
our duty to your honor . 	we’ll do our duty to you ,  sir . 
your loves ,  as mine to you . 	give me your love instead ,  as I give you mine . 
farewell . 	good - bye . 
my father’s spirit in arms . 	my father’s ghost—armed ! 
all is not well . 	something’s wrong . 
I doubt some foul play . 	I suspect some foul play . 
would the night were come ! 	I wish the night were here already ! 
till then sit still ,  my soul . 	until then ,  I have to remain calm . 
foul deeds will rise ,  Though all the earth o'erwhelm them ,  to men’s eyes . 	bad deeds will be revealed ,  no matter how people try to hide them . 
my necessaries are embarked . 	my belongings are on the ship already . 
farewell . 	good - bye . 
and ,  sister ,  as the winds give benefit And convey is assistant ,  do not sleep ,  But let me hear from you . 	and ,  my dear sister ,  as long as the winds are blowing and ships are sailing ,  let me hear from you—write . 
do you doubt that ? 	do you doubt I’ll write ? 
for Hamlet and the trifling of his favor ,  Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood ,  A violet in the youth of primy nature ,  Forward ,  not permanent ,  sweet ,  not lasting ,  The perfume and suppliance of a minute . 	as for Hamlet and his attentions to you ,  just consider it a big flirtation ,  the temporary phase of a hot - blooded youth . 
no more . 	It won’t last . 
no more but so ? 	not a second more . 
think it no more . 	no more than a minute ? 
then weigh what loss your honor may sustain If with too credent ear you list his songs ,  Or lose your heart ,  or your chaste treasure open To his unmastered importunity . 	then think about how shameful it would be for you to give in to his seductive talk and surrender your treasure chest to his greedy hands . 
fear it ,  Ophelia . 	watch out ,  Ophelia . 
fear it ,  my dear sister ,  And keep you in the rear of your affection ,  Out of the shot and danger of desire . 	just keep your love under control ,  and don’t let yourself become a target of his lust . 
and in the morn and liquid dew of youth ,  Contagious blastments are most imminent . 	baby blooms are most susceptible to disease . 
be wary ,  then . 	so be careful . 
best safety lies in fear . 	fear will keep you safe . 
youth to itself rebels ,  though none else near . 	young people often lose their self - control even without any help from others . 
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep As watchman to my heart . 	I’ll keep your words of wisdom close to my heart . 
o ,  fear me not . 	don’t worry ,  I won’t . 
I stay too long . 	I’ve been here too long . 
but here my father comes . 	and here comes father . 
yet here ,  Laertes ? 	you’re still here ? 
aboard ,  aboard ,  for shame ! 	shame on you—get on board ! 
the wind sits in the shoulder of your sail And you are stayed for . 	the wind is filling your ship’s sail ,  and they’re waiting for you . 
there ,  my blessing with thee . 	here ,  I give you my blessing again . 
and these few precepts in thy memory Look thou character . 	and just try to remember a few rules of life . 
give thy thoughts no tongue ,  Nor any unproportioned thought his act . 	don’t say what you’re thinking ,  and don’t be too quick to act on what you think . 
be thou familiar but by no means vulgar . 	be friendly to people but don’t overdo it . 
beware Of entrance to a quarrel ,  but being in ,  Bear ’t that th' opposèd may beware of thee . 	don’t be quick to pick a fight ,  but once you’re in one ,  hold your own . 
give every man thy ear but few thy voice . 	listen to many people ,  but talk to few . 
take each man’s censure but reserve thy judgment . 	hear everyone’s opinion ,  but reserve your judgment . 
farewell . 	good - bye ,  son . 
your servants tend . 	your servants are waiting . 
tis in my memory locked ,  And you yourself shall keep the key of it . 	It’s locked away in my memory ,  and you’ve got the key . 
farewell . 	good - bye . 
what is ’t ,  Ophelia ,  he hath said to you ? 	what did he tell you ,  Ophelia ? 
so please you ,  something touching the Lord Hamlet . 	something about Hamlet . 
If it be so as so ’tis put on me— And that in way of caution—I must tell you ,  You do not understand yourself so clearly As it behooves my daughter and your honor . 	If things are the way people tell me they are—and they’re only telling me this to warn me—then I have to say ,  you’re not conducting yourself with the self - restraint a daughter of mine should show . 
what is between you ? 	what’s going on between you two ? 
give me up the truth . 	tell me the truth . 
he hath ,  my lord ,  of late made many tenders Of his affection to me . 	he’s offered me a lot of affection lately . 
affection ! 	affection !  ”  That’s nothing ! 
pooh ,  you speak like a green girl ,  Unsifted in such perilous circumstance . 	you’re talking like some innocent girl who doesn’t understand the ways of the world . 
do you believe his  “ tenders ,  ”  as you call them ? 	do you believe his  “ offers ,  ”  as you call them ? 
I do not know ,  my lord ,  what I should think . 	I don’t know what to believe ,  father . 
marry ,  I’ll teach you . 	then I’ll tell you . 
think yourself a baby That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay ,  Which are not sterling . 	believe that you are a foolish little baby for believing these  “ offers ”  are something real . 
tender yourself more dearly ,  Or—not to crack the wind of the poor phrase ,  Running it thus—you’ll tender me a fool . 	offer yourself more respect ,  or—not to beat this word to death—you’ll offer me the chance to be a laughing - stock . 
go to ,  go to . 	go on . 
and hath given countenance to his speech ,  my lord ,  With almost all the holy vows of heaven . 	and he’s made the holiest vows to me ,  to back up what he says . 
ay ,  springes to catch woodcocks . 	these vows are just traps for stupid birds . 
I do know ,  When the blood burns ,  how prodigal the soul Lends the tongue vows . 	I know when a man is on fire ,  he’ll swear anything . 
for Lord Hamlet ,  Believe so much in him that he is young ,  And with a larger tether may he walk Than may be given you . 	remember that Hamlet is young and has a lot more freedom to fool around than you do . 
look to ’t ,  I charge you . 	do as I say . 
come your ways . 	now come along . 
I shall obey ,  my lord . 	I’ll do as you say ,  father . 
friends to this ground . 	friends of this country . 
and liegemen to the Dane . 	and servants of the Danish king . 
give you good night . 	good night to you both . 
o ,  farewell ,  honest soldier . 	good - bye . 
who hath relieved you ? 	who’s taken over the watch for you ? 
barnardo has my place . 	barnardo’s taken my place . 
give you good night . 	good night . 
say what ,  is Horatio there ? 	Is Horatio here too ? 
a piece of him . 	more or less . 
what ,  has this thing appeared again tonight ? 	so ,  tell us ,  did you see that thing again tonight ? 
I have seen nothing . 	I haven’t seen anything . 
horatio says ’tis but our fantasy And will not let belief take hold of him Touching this dreaded sight twice seen of us . 	horatio says we’re imagining it ,  and won’t let himself believe anything about this horrible thing that we’ve seen twice now . 
therefore I have entreated him along With us to watch the minutes of this night ,  That if again this apparition come He may approve our eyes and speak to it . 	that’s why I’ve begged him to come on our shift tonight ,  so that if the ghost appears he can see what we see and speak to it . 
It is a nipping and an eager air . 	yes ,  it’s definitely nippy . 
what hour now ? 	what time is it ? 
I think it lacks of twelve . 	a little before twelve ,  I think . 
no ,  it is struck . 	no ,  it’s just after twelve; I heard the clock strike . 
Indeed ? 	really ? 
I heard it not . 	I didn’t hear it . 
It then draws near the season Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk . 	so it’s nearly the time when the ghost likes to appear . 
what does this mean ,  my lord ? 	what does that mean ,  sir ? 
Is it a custom ? 	Is that a tradition ? 
ay ,  marry ,  is ’t . 	yes ,  it is . 
but to my mind ,  though I am native here And to the manner born ,  it is a custom More honored in the breach than the observance . 	but though I was born here and should consider that tradition part of my own heritage ,  I think it would be better to ignore it than practice it . 
this heavy - headed revel east and west Makes us traduced and taxed of other nations . 	other countries criticize us for our loud partying . 
they clepe us drunkards and with swinish phrase Soil our addition . 	they call us drunks and insult our noble titles . 
and indeed it takes From our achievements ,  though performed at height ,  The pith and marrow of our attribute . 	and our drunkenness does detract from our achievements ,  as great as they are ,  and lessens our reputations . 
the dram of evil Doth all the noble substance of a doubt To his own scandal . 	a tiny spot of evil casts doubt on their good qualities and ruins their reputations . 
look ,  my lord ,  it comes ! 	look ,  sir—here it comes ! 
angels and ministers of grace defend us ! 	oh angels ,  protect us ! 
be thou a spirit of health or goblin damned ,  Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell ,  Be thy intents wicked or charitable ,  Thou comest in such a questionable shape That I will speak to thee . 	whether you’re a good spirit or a cursed demon ,  whether you bring heavenly breezes or blasts of hell fire ,  whether your intentions are good or evil ,  you look so strange I want to talk to you . 
I’ll call thee  “ Hamlet ,  ”   “ King ,  ”   “ Father ,  ”   “ royal Dane .  ”  O ,  answer me ! 	I’ll call you  “ Hamlet Senior ,  ”   “ King ,  ”   “ Father ,  ”   “ royal Dane .  ”  Answer me ! 
let me not burst in ignorance ,  but tell Why thy canonized bones ,  hearsed in death ,  Have burst their cerements; why the sepulcher , 	don’t drive me crazy with curiosity ,  but tell me why your church - buried bones have burst out of their coffin ,  and why your tomb , 
wherein we saw thee quietly interred ,  Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws To cast thee up again . 	where we quietly buried you ,  has opened up its heavy marble jaws to spit you out again . 
wherefore ? 	why ? 
It beckons you to go away with it ,  As if it some impartment did desire To you alone . 	It wants you to go off with it ,  as if it wants to tell you something alone . 
look ,  with what courteous action It waves you to a more removèd ground . 	look how politely it’s pointing you to a place that’s farther away . 
but do not go with it . 	but don’t go . 
no ,  by no means . 	definitely not . 
do not ,  my lord . 	don’t do it ,  sir . 
why ,  what should be the fear ? 	why ,  what’s the danger ? 
I do not set my life in a pin’s fee ,  And for my soul—what can it do to that ,  Being a thing immortal as itself ? 	and as for my soul ,  how can the ghost endanger that ,  since it’s as immortal as the ghost is ? 
It waves me forth again . 	look ,  it’s waving me over again . 
I’ll follow it . 	I’ll follow it . 
and there assume some other horrible form ,  Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason And draw you into madness ? 	where it takes on some other horrible form that drives you insane . 
think of it . 	think about it . 
It waves me still . 	It’s still waving to me . 
you shall not go ,  my lord . 	you’re not going ,  sir . 
hold off your hands . 	let go of me . 
be ruled . 	calm down . 
you shall not go . 	you’re not going anywhere . 
still am I called . —Unhand me ,  gentlemen . 	let me go ,  gentlemen . 
by heaven ,  I’ll make a ghost of him that lets me . 	I swear ,  if anyone holds me back ,  I’ll make a ghost of him ! 
he waxes desperate with imagination . 	his imagination is making him crazy . 
let’s follow . 	let’s follow them . 
tis not fit thus to obey him . 	It’s not right to obey his orders to let him go alone . 
nay ,  let’s follow him . 	no ,  let’s follow him . 
where wilt thou lead me ? 	where are you taking me ? 
speak ,  I’ll go no further . 	speak . 
mark me . 	listen to me . 
I will . 	I will . 
my hour is almost come When I to sulfurous and tormenting flames Must render up myself . 	the hour has almost come when I have to return to the horrible flames of purgatory . 
alas ,  poor ghost ! 	ah ,  poor ghost ! 
speak . 	speak . 
I am bound to hear . 	I’m ready to hear you . 
so art thou to revenge when thou shalt hear . 	you must be ready for revenge ,  too ,  when you hear me out . 
what ? 	what ? 
I am thy father’s spirit ,  Doomed for a certain term to walk the night And for the day confined to fast in fires ,  Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature Are burnt and purged away . 	I’m the ghost of your father ,  doomed for a certain period of time to walk the earth at night ,  while during the day I’m trapped in the fires of purgatory until I’ve done penance for my past sins . 
but that I am forbid To tell the secrets of my prison house ,  I could a tale unfold whose lightest word Would harrow up thy soul ,  freeze thy young blood , 	If I weren’t forbidden to tell you the secrets of
make thy two eyes ,  like stars ,  start from their spheres ,  Thy knotted and combinèd locks to part And each particular hair to stand on end ,  Like quills upon the fearful porpentine . 	make your eyes jump out of their sockets ,  and your hair stand on end like porcupine quills . 
but this eternal blazon must not be To ears of flesh and blood . 	but mortals like you aren’t allowed to hear this description of the afterlife . 
list ,  list ,  O ,  list ! 	listen ,  listen ! 
If thou didst ever thy dear father love— O God ! 	If you ever loved your poor dear father— Oh God ! 
revenge his foul and most unnatural murder . 	take revenge for his horrible murder ,  that crime against nature . 
murder ? 	murder ? 
murder most foul ,  as in the best it is . 	his most horrible murder . 
but this most foul ,  strange and unnatural . 	murder’s always horrible ,  but this one was especially horrible ,  weird ,  and unnatural . 
haste me to know ’t ,  that I ,  with wings as swift As meditation or the thoughts of love ,  May sweep to my revenge . 	you’d have to be as lazy as a weed on the shores of  I knew it ! 
my uncle ? 	my uncle ? 
o Hamlet ,  what a falling off was there ! 	oh ,  Hamlet ,  how far she fell ! 
from me ,  whose love was of that dignity That it went hand in hand even with the vow I made to her in marriage ,  and to decline Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor To those of mine . 	she went from me ,  who loved her with the dignity and devotion that suits a legitimate marriage ,  to a wretch whose natural gifts were poor compared to mine . 
brief let me be . 	so let me be brief here . 
thus was I ,  sleeping ,  by a brother’s hand Of life ,  of crown ,  of queen at once dispatched ,  Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin , 	and that’s how my brother robbed me of my life ,  my crown ,  and my queen all at once . 
oh ,  horrible ,  oh ,  horrible ,  most horrible ! 	oh ,  it’s horrible ,  horrible ,  so horrible ! 
If thou hast nature in thee ,  bear it not . 	If you are human ,  don’t stand for it . 
let not the royal bed of Denmark be A couch for luxury and damnèd incest . 	don’t let the Danish king’s bed be a nest of incest . 
leave her to heaven And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge To prick and sting her . 	leave her to God and her own guilt . 
fare thee well at once . 	now ,  good - bye . 
the glowworm shows the matin to be near ,  And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire . 	the glowworm’s light is beginning to fade ,  so morning is near . 
adieu ,  adieu ,  adieu . 	good - bye ,  good - bye ,  good - bye . 
remember me . 	remember me . 
o all you host of heaven ! 	ah ,  all you up in heaven ! 
o earth ! 	and earth ! 
what else ? 	what else ? 
and shall I couple hell ? 	shall I include hell as well ? 
oh ,  fie ! 	damn it ! 
hold ,  hold ,  my heart ,  And you ,  my sinews ,  grow not instant old ,  But bear me stiffly up . 	keep beating ,  my heart ,  and muscles ,  don’t grow old yet—keep me standing . 
remember thee ! 	remember you ! 
ay ,  thou poor ghost ,  whiles memory holds a seat In this distracted globe . 	yes ,  you poor ghost ,  as long as I have any power of memory in this distracted head . 
remember thee ! 	remember you ! 
yea ,  from the table of my memory I’ll wipe away all trivial fond records ,  All saws of books ,  all forms ,  all pressures past That youth and observation copied there ,  And thy commandment all alone shall live Within the book and volume of my brain ,  Unmixed with baser matter . 	yes ,  I’ll wipe my mind clean of all trivial facts and memories and preserve only your commandment there . 
yes ,  by heaven ! 	yes ,  by God ! 
o most pernicious woman ! 	oh ,  you evil woman ! 
o villain ,  villain ,  smiling ,  damnèd villain ! 	oh ,  you villain ,  villain ,  you damned ,  smiling villain ! 
my tables ! —Meet it is I set it down That one may smile ,  and smile ,  and be a villain . 	where’s my notebook ? —It’s a good idea for me to write down that one can smile and smile ,  and be a villain . 
at least I’m sure it may be so in Denmark . 	at least it’s possible in Denmark . 
remember me .  ”  I have sworn ’t . 	he said ,   “ Remember me .  ”  I swore I would . 
my lord ,  my lord ! 	sir ,  sir ! 
lord Hamlet— Heaven secure him ! 	lord Hamlet . — Please let him be all right ! 
so be it . 	I’m all right . 
Illo ,  ho ,  ho ,  my lord ! 	oh - ho - ho ,  sir ! 
hillo ,  ho ,  ho ,  boy . 	oh - ho - ho ,  kid ! 
come ,  bird ,  come . 	come here . 
how is ’t ,  my noble lord ? 	so how did it go ,  sir ? 
what news ,  my lord ? 	what happened ,  sir ? 
oh ,  wonderful ! 	It was incredible ! 
good my lord ,  tell it . 	oh ,  please ,  tell us ,  sir . 
not I ,  my lord ,  by heaven . 	I swear I won’t ,  sir . 
nor I ,  my lord . 	I won’t either ,  sir . 
how say you ,  then ? 	okay . 
but you’ll be secret ? 	but you promise you can keep a secret ? 
ay ,  by heaven ,  my lord . 	yes ,  I swear . 
sit down a while And let us once again assail your ears ,  That are so fortified against our story ,  What we have two nights seen . 	sit down for a while ,  and we’ll tell you again the story you don’t want to believe ,  about what we’ve seen two nights now . 
well ,  sit we down ,  And let us hear Barnardo speak of this . 	well ,  let’s sit down and listen to Barnardo tell us . 
last night of all ,  When yond same star that’s westward from the pole Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven Where now it burns ,  Marcellus and myself ,  The bell then beating one— Peace ,  break thee off . 	last night ,  when that star to the west of the North Star had traveled across the night sky to that point where it’s shining now ,  at one o'clock ,  Marcellus and I— Quiet ,  shut up ! 
look where it comes again ! 	It’s come again . 
In the same figure like the king that’s dead . 	looking just like the dead king . 
most like . 	very much so . 
It harrows me with fear and wonder . 	It’s terrifying . 
It would be spoke to . 	It wants us to speak to it . 
question it ,  Horatio . 	ask it something ,  Horatio . 
by heaven ,  I charge thee ,  speak . 	by God ,  I order you to speak . 
there’s ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark But he’s an arrant knave . 	any villain in Denmark is going to be ,  well ,  a villain . 
there needs no ghost ,  my lord ,  come from the grave To tell us this . 	you don’t need a ghost returning from the grave to tell you that ,  sir . 
why ,  right ,  you are in the right . 	yes ,  you’re absolutely right . 
and so ,  without more circumstance at all ,  I hold it fit that we shake hands and part . 	so ,  without further ado ,  the best thing to do now is probably just to shake hands and go our separate ways . 
you ,  as your business and desire shall point you— For every man has business and desire ,  Such as it is—and for my own poor part ,  Look you ,  I’ll go pray . 	you go and take care of your business (since everybody has some business to take care of ,  whatever it is worth) ,  and I’ll go and pray . 
these are but wild and whirling words ,  my lord . 	you’re talking in such a crazy way ,  sir . 
there’s no offense ,  my lord . 	no offense taken . 
yes ,  by Saint Patrick ,  but there is ,  Horatio ,  And much offense too . 	ah ,  but there is ,  Horatio ,  there’s a lot of offense . 
touching this vision here ,  It is an honest ghost ,  that let me tell you . 	as for this ghost we just saw ,  he’s a real one ,  I can tell you that much . 
for your desire to know what is between us ,  O'ermaster ’t as you may . 	but regarding what happened between us ,  don’t ask—I can’t tell you . 
and now ,  good friends ,  As you are friends ,  scholars and soldiers ,  Give me one poor request . 	and now ,  my friends ,  my courageous and educated friends ,  do me one small favor . 
what is ’t ,  my lord ? 	what is it ,  sir ? 
we will . 	of course we will . 
never make known what you have seen tonight . 	don’t ever tell anyone what you’ve seen tonight . 
my lord ,  we will not . 	we won’t ,  sir . 
nay ,  but swear ’t . 	no ,  you have to swear it . 
In faith ,  my lord ,  not I . 	I swear to God I won’t . 
nor I ,  my lord ,  in faith . 	me too ,  I won’t ,  I swear to God . 
upon my sword . 	swear by my sword . 
we have sworn ,  my lord ,  already . 	but we already swore ,  sir . 
Indeed ,  upon my sword ,  indeed . 	yes ,  but swear by my sword this time . 
consent to swear . 	agree to swear . 
never to speak of this that you have seen . 	you swear never to mention what you’ve seen . 
swear by my sword . 	swear by my sword . 
come hither ,  gentlemen ,  And lay your hands again upon my sword . 	come over here ,  gentlemen ,  and put your hands on my sword again . 
swear by my sword Never to speak of this that you have heard . 	swear by my sword you’ll never mention what you’ve heard . 
well said ,  old mole ! 	you said it right ,  old mole . 
a worthy pioneer ! 	what a tunneler ! 
once more remove ,  good friends . 	let’s move again ,  my friends . 
o day and night ,  but this is wondrous strange ! 	my God ,  this is unbelievably strange . 
and therefore as a stranger give it welcome . 	then give it a nice welcome ,  as you would give to any stranger . 
there are more things in heaven and earth ,  Horatio ,  Than are dreamt of in your philosophy . 	there are more things in heaven and earth ,  Horatio ,  than you’ve even dreamed of . 
this not to do ,  So grace and mercy at your most need help you ,  Swear . 	swear you won’t . 
nay ,  come ,  let’s go together . 	let’s go back to court together ,  but
give him this money and these notes ,  Reynaldo . 	give him this money and these letters ,  Reynaldo . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will ,  sir . 
you shall do marvelous wisely ,  good Reynaldo ,  Before you visit him ,  to make inquire Of his behavior . 	It would be wonderfully wise of you ,  my dear Reynaldo ,  to ask around about his behavior a little before you visit him . 
my lord ,  I did intend it . 	that’s what I thought too ,  sir . 
marry ,  well said ,  very well said . 	excellent ,  very good . 
take you ,  as ’twere ,  some distant knowledge of him ,  As thus:  “ I know his father and his friends ,  And ,  in part ,  him .  ”  Do you mark this ,  Reynaldo ? 	do you get what I’m saying ,  Reynaldo ? 
ay ,  very well ,  my lord . 	yes ,  very well ,  sir . 
and in part him ,  but ,  ”  you may say ,   “ not well . 	you should say ,   “ I sort of know him ,  but not well . 
addicted so and so . — ”  And there put on him What forgeries you please . 	Isn’t he the one who’s always ,  ”  and so on . 
but ,  sir ,  such wanton ,  wild ,  and usual slips	like gambling ,  sir ? 
ay ,  or drinking ,  fencing ,  swearing ,  Quarreling ,  drabbing—you may go so far . 	that’s right ,  or drinking ,  swearing ,  fist - fighting ,  visiting prostitutes—that kind of thing . 
my lord ,  that would dishonor him ! 	but that would ruin his reputation ! 
faith ,  no ,  as you may season it in the charge . 	oh no ,  not if you say it right . 
but ,  my good lord— Wherefore should you do this ? 	but ,  sir— Why should you do this ,  you want to know ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  sir . 
I would know that . 	I’d like to know . 
very good ,  my lord . 	yes ,  sir . 
and then ,  sir ,  does he this ,  he does— What was I about to say ? 	and then he’ll … he’ll … wait ,  what was I about to say ? 
by the mass ,  I was about to say something . 	good God ,  I was about to say something . 
where did I leave ? 	what was I saying ? 
I saw him yesterday ” —or  “ t' other day ,  ”  Or then ,  or then ,  with such or such— “ and ,  as you say ,  There was he gaming ,  there o'ertook in’s rouse ,  There falling out at tennis ,  ”  or ,  perchance ,   “ I saw him enter such a house of sale ” —   Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth . 	I just saw him yesterday ,  ”  or  “ the other day ,  ”  or whenever it is ,  you know ,   “ and there he was gambling ,  ”  or  “ there he was ,  totally wasted ,  or fighting with somebody about a tennis match ,  or going into a house of ill repute ” —that means a whorehouse ,  you know—or whatever . 
you have me ,  have you not ? 	you get my point ,  don’t you ? 
my lord ,  I have . 	yes ,  I do ,  sir . 
god be wi' you . 	god bless you . 
fare you well . 	have a safe trip . 
good my lord . 	thank you ,  sir . 
I shall ,  my lord . 	I will ,  sir . 
and let him ply his music . 	and I hope he’s studying his music like he’s supposed to . 
well ,  my lord . 	got it ,  sir . 
farewell . 	good - bye . 
with what ,  i' th' name of God ? 	from what ,  in God’s name ? 
mad for thy love ? 	Is he crazy with love for you ? 
what said he ? 	what did he say ? 
long stayed he so . 	he stayed like that a long time . 
at last ,  a little shaking of mine arm And thrice his head thus waving up and down ,  He raised a sigh so piteous and profound As it did seem to shatter all his bulk And end his being . 	finally ,  after shaking my arm a little ,  and jerking his head up and down three times ,  he sighed like it was his last breath . 
come ,  go with me . 	come with me . 
I will go seek the king . 	I’ll go tell the king about this . 
this is the very ecstasy of love ,  Whose violent property fordoes itself And leads the will to desperate undertakings As oft as any passion under heaven That does afflict our natures . 	love is such a violent emotion that it makes people self - destruct ,  as much as any strong emotion . 
I am sorry . 	I’m so sorry . 
that hath made him mad . 	that’s what made him crazy . 
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment I had not quoted him . 	I regret not observing him more closely before I told you to do that . 
I feared he did but trifle And meant to wreck thee . 	I thought he was just toying with you and meant to ruin your reputation . 
but beshrew my jealousy ! 	damn my suspicious thoughts ! 
by heaven ,  it is as proper to our age To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions As it is common for the younger sort To lack discretion . 	It’s as common for us old people to assume we know more than we do as for young people to be too wild and crazy . 
come ,  go we to the king . 	come on ,  let’s go see the king . 
welcome ,  dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern . 	welcome ,  dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern . 
moreover that we much did long to see you ,  The need we have to use you did provoke Our hasty sending . 	I’ve wanted to see you for a long time now ,  but I sent for you so hastily because I need your help right away . 
something have you heard Of Hamlet’s  “ transformation ” —so call it Since nor th' exterior nor the inward man Resembles that it was . 	you’ve probably heard about the  “ change ”  that’s come over Hamlet—that’s the only word for it ,  since inside and out he’s different from what he was before . 
what it should be ,  More than his father’s death ,  that thus hath put him So much from th' understanding of himself ,  I cannot dream of . 	I can’t imagine what’s made him so unlike himself ,  other than his father’s death . 
both your majesties Might ,  by the sovereign power you have of us ,  Put your dread pleasures more into command Than to entreaty . 	both you and the king might have ordered us to execute your command ,  instead of asking us so politely . 
but we both obey And here give up ourselves ,  in the full bent ,  To lay our service freely at your feet To be commanded . 	but we’ll obey . 
thanks ,  Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern . 	thanks ,  Rosencrantz and worthy Guildenstern . 
thanks ,  Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz . 	thanks ,  Guildenstern and worthy Rosencrantz . 
and I beseech you instantly to visit My too much changèd son . 	I beg you to pay a visit right away to my son ,  who’s changed too much . 
go ,  some of you ,  And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is . 	servants ,  take these gentlemen to see Hamlet . 
heavens make our presence and our practices Pleasant and helpful to him ! 	I hope to God we can make him happy and do him some good ! 
ay ,  amen ! 	amen to that ! 
th' ambassadors from Norway ,  my good lord ,  Are joyfully returned . 	the ambassadors are back from Norway ,  sir . 
thou still hast been the father of good news . 	once again you bring good news . 
have I ,  my lord ? 	do I ,  sir ? 
I assure my good liege ,  I hold my duty as I hold my soul ,  Both to my God and to my gracious king . 	I assure your majesty I’m only doing my duty both to my God and my good king . 
It is offended . 	It looks like you’ve offended it . 
see ,  it stalks away . 	look ,  it’s going away . 
stay ! 	stay ! 
I charge thee ,  speak ! 	I order you ,  speak ! 
how now ,  Horatio ? 	what’s going on ,  Horatio ? 
you tremble and look pale . 	you’re pale and trembling . 
Is not this something more than fantasy ? 	you agree now that we’re not imagining this ,  don’t you ? 
what think you on ’t ? 	what do you think about it ? 
before my God ,  I might not this believe Without the sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes . 	I swear to God ,  if I hadn’t seen this with my own eyes I’d never believe it . 
Is it not like the king ? 	doesn’t it look like the king ? 
as thou art to thyself . 	yes ,  as much as you look like yourself . 
such was the very armour he had on When he the ambitious Norway combated . 	the king was wearing exactly this armor when he fought the king of Norway . 
so frowned he once when ,  in an angry parle ,  He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice . 	and the ghost frowned just like the king did once when he attacked the Poles ,  traveling on the ice in sleds . 
tis strange . 	It’s weird . 
and I do think—or else this brain of mine Hunts not the trail of policy so sure As it hath used to do—that I have found The very cause of Hamlet’s lunacy . 	and I believe—unless this brain of mine is not so politically cunning as it used to be—that I’ve found out why Hamlet’s gone crazy . 
oh ,  speak of that . 	tell me ! 
that do I long to hear . 	I want very much to find out . 
give first admittance to th' ambassadors . 	all right ,  but first let the ambassadors speak . 
my news shall be the fruit to that great feast . 	then you can hear my news ,  as dessert . 
thyself do grace to them ,  and bring them in . 	then be so kind as to show them in . 
he tells me ,  my dear Gertrude ,  he hath found The head and source of all your son’s distemper . 	gertrude ,  he says he’s found out the reason for your son’s insanity . 
I doubt it is no other but the main: His father’s death and our o'erhasty marriage . 	I doubt it’s anything but the obvious reason: his father’s dying and our quick marriage . 
well ,  we shall sift him . —Welcome ,  my good friends ! 	welcome ,  my good friends . 
say ,  Voltemand ,  what from our brother Norway ? 	tell me ,  Voltemand ,  what’s the news from the king of Norway ? 
whereat grieved— That so his sickness ,  age ,  and impotence Was falsely borne in hand—sends out arrests On Fortinbras ,  which he ,  in brief ,  obeys ,  Receives rebuke from Norway ,  and in fine Makes vow before his uncle never more To give th' assay of arms against your majesty . 	he was very upset that Fortinbras had taken advantage of his being old and sick to deceive him ,  and he ordered Fortinbras’s arrest . 
whereon old Norway ,  overcome with joy , 	fortinbras swore never to threaten Denmark again . 
gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee And his commission to employ those soldiers ,  So levied as before ,  against the Polack ,  With an entreaty ,  herein further shown ,  That it might please you to give quiet pass Through your dominions for this enterprise ,  On such regards of safety and allowance As therein are set down . 	the old king was so overjoyed by this promise that he gave young Fortinbras an annual income of three thousand  I like this news ,  and when I have time I’ll read this and think about how to reply . 
meantime we thank you for your well - took labor . 	meanwhile ,  thank you for your efforts . 
go to your rest . 	go relax now . 
at night we’ll feast together . 	tonight we’ll have dinner . 
most welcome home ! 	welcome back ! 
this business is well ended . 	well ,  that turned out well in the end . 
my liege and madam ,  to expostulate What majesty should be ,  what duty is ,  Why day is day ,  night night ,  and time is time ,  Were nothing but to waste night ,  day ,  and time . 	sir and madam ,  to make grand speeches about what majesty is ,  what service is ,  or why day is day ,  night is night ,  and time is time is just a waste of a lot of day ,  night ,  and time . 
therefore ,  since brevity is the soul of wit And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes ,  I will be brief: your noble son is mad . 	your son is crazy . 
mad call I it ,  for ,  to define true madness ,  What is ’t but to be nothing else but mad ? 	crazy ”  I’m calling it ,  since how can you say what craziness is except to say that it’s craziness ? 
but let that go . 	but that’s another story . 
thus it remains ,  and the remainder thus . 	think about it . 
I have a daughter—have while she is mine— Who in her duty and obedience ,  mark ,  Hath given me this . 	I have a daughter (I have her until she gets married) who’s given me this letter ,  considering it her duty . 
good madam ,  stay a while . 	madam ,  please be patient . 
I will be faithful . 	I’ll read it to you . 
o dear Ophelia ,  I am ill at these numbers . 	oh ,  Ophelia ,  I’m bad at poetry . 
I have not art to reckon my groans ,  but that I love thee best ,  oh ,  most best ,  believe it . 	I can’t put my feelings into verse ,  but please believe I love you best ,  oh ,  best of all . 
adieu . 	believe it . 
hamlet .  ”  This in obedience hath my daughter shown me ,  And more above ,  hath his solicitings ,  As they fell out by time ,  by means ,  and place ,  All given to mine ear . 	hamlet .  ”  Dutifully and obediently my daughter showed me this letter ,  and more like it . 
but how hath she received his love ? 	and how did she react to all this ? 
what do you think of me ? 	sir ,  what is your opinion of me ? 
as of a man faithful and honorable . 	I know you are loyal and honorable . 
I would fain prove so . 	I would like to prove to you that I am . 
what might you think ? 	no ,  I had to do something . 
no ,  I went round to work ,  And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:  “ Lord Hamlet is a prince out of thy star . 	and so I said to my daughter:  “ Lord Hamlet is a prince ,  he’s out of your league . 
It may be ,  very like . 	It may be ,  it certainly may be . 
hath there been such a time—I would fain know that— That I have positively said ,   “ 'Tis so ,  ”  When it proved otherwise ? 	has there ever been a time—I’d really like to know—when I’ve definitely said something was true ,  and it turned out not to be true ? 
not that I know . 	not that I know of . 
how may we try it further ? 	what can we do to find out if it’s true ? 
you know sometimes he walks four hours together Here in the lobby . 	well ,  you know he sometimes walks here in the lobby for four hours at a time . 
so he does indeed . 	yes ,  he does . 
at such a time I’ll loose my daughter to him . 	when he’s there next time ,  I’ll send my daughter to see him . 
away ,  I do beseech you ,  both away . 	please go away ,  both of you . 
I’ll board him presently . 	I’ll speak to him now . 
o ,  give me leave . 	oh ,  please let me . 
how does my good Lord Hamlet ? 	how are you ,  Hamlet ? 
well ,  God - 'a' - mercy . 	fine ,  thank you . 
do you know me ,  my lord ? 	do you know who I am ? 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
nay ,  answer me . 	no ,  answer me . 
stand and unfold yourself . 	halt ,  and identify yourself . 
long live the King ! 	long live the king ! 
bernardo ? 	bernardo ? 
he . 	yes . 
you come most carefully upon your hour . 	you’re really on time . 
tis now struck twelve . 	It’s just midnight . 
get thee to bed ,  Francisco . 	go to bed ,  Francisco . 
for this relief much thanks . 	thanks for being on time . 
tis bitter cold ,  And I am sick at heart . 	It’s bitter cold ,  And I’m depressed . 
have you had quiet guard ? 	have things been quiet on your watch ? 
not a mouse stirring . 	not a mouse stirring . 
well ,  good night . 	well ,  good night . 
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus ,  The rivals of my watch ,  bid them make haste . 	If you meet Horatio and Marcellus ,  The ones who will watch with me ,  tell them to hurry up . 
I think I hear them . 	I think I hear them . 
stand ,  ho ! 	halt ! 
who is there ? 	who goes there ? 
friends to this ground . 	your friends . 
and liegemen to the Dane . 	and subjects of the Dane . 
give you good night . 	have a good night . 
bernardo hath my place . 	bernardo . 
give you good night . 	have a good - night . 
say ,  What ,  is Horatio there ? 	what ,  is that Horatio with you ? 
a piece of him . 	a piece of him . 
welcome ,  Horatio . 	welcome ,  Horatio . 
welcome ,  good Marcellus . 	welcome ,  good Marcellus . 
what ,  has this thing appear'd again to - night ? 	tell me ,  has this thing appeared again tonight ? 
I have seen nothing . 	I haven’t seen anything . 
horatio says 'tis but our fantasy ,  And will not let belief take hold of him Touching this dreaded sight ,  twice seen of us . 	horatio says it’s all in our imagination ,  And doesn’t believe a word we say About this dreaded sight ,  seen twice by us . 
therefore I have entreated him along With us to watch the minutes of this night ,  That if again this apparition come He may approve our eyes and speak to it . 	so I’ve begged him to come along With us to watch what happens this night ,  That ,  if this apparition comes again ,  He may believe what we have seen and speak to it . 
tush ,  tush ,  'twill not appear . 	nonsense ,  nonsense ,  it will not appear . 
sit down awhile ,  And let us once again assail your ears ,  That are so fortified against our story ,  What we two nights have seen . 	sit down awhile ,  And let us tell you once again ,  You who is so stubborn in not believing our story ,  What we have seen these last two nights . 
well ,  sit we down ,  And let us hear Bernardo speak of this . 	oK ,  let’s sit down ,  And listen to Bernardo speak of this . 
last night of all ,  When yond same star that's westward from the pole Had made his course to illume that part of heaven Where now it burns ,  Marcellus and myself ,  The bell then beating one— Peace ! 	last night ,  When that star up there ,  that's west of the North Pole ,  Had moved around to light that part of the sky Where now it burns ,  Marcellus and myself ,  The clock’s bell then tolling one ,  Quiet ,  stop ! 
look where it comes again ! 	look it’s coming again ! 
In the same figure ,  like the King that's dead . 	It looks just like the dead king ! 
thou art a scholar; speak to it ,  Horatio . 	you’re a scholar ,  speak to it ,  Horatio . 
looks it not like the King ? 	doesn’t it look like the King ? 
mark it ,  Horatio . 	look at it ,  Horatio . 
most like . 	yes ,  it does . 
It harrows me with fear and wonder . 	It fills me with fear and wonder . 
It would be spoke to . 	It wants to be spoken to . 
question it ,  Horatio . 	question it ,  Horatio . 
what art thou that usurp'st this time of night ,  Together with that fair and warlike form In which the majesty of buried Denmark Did sometimes march ? 	what are you ,  that seizes this time of night ,  Taking the same fair and warlike form In which the dead king of Denmark ,  now buried ,  Did sometimes march ? 
by heaven I charge thee speak ! 	by heaven I order you ,  speak ! 
It is offended . 	It is offended . 
see ,  it stalks away ! 	see ,  it stalks away ! 
stay ! 	stay ! 
speak ,  speak ! 	speak ,  speak ! 
I charge thee ,  speak ! 	I order you to speak ! 
tis gone ,  and will not answer . 	It is gone ,  and will not answer us . 
how now ,  Horatio ? 	what’s wrong ,  Horatio ? 
you tremble and look pale . 	you tremble and look pale . 
Is not this something more than fantasy ? 	Is this not more than our imaginations ? 
what think you on't ? 	what do you think about it ? 
before my God ,  I might not this believe Without the sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes . 	before my God ,  I might not believe this thing Without the seeing and true testimony Of my own eyes . 
Is it not like the King ? 	Isn’t it like the King ? 
as thou art to thyself . 	as you are to yourself . 
tis strange . 	It is strange . 
thus twice before ,  and jump at this dead hour ,  With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch . 	It’s come twice before ,  and just appearing out of nothing ,  he’s gone past us at this dead hour with a warlike stalk . 
In what particular thought to work I know not; But ,  in the gross and scope of my opinion ,  This bodes some strange eruption to our state . 	I don’t know what its intentions are ,  But ,  in the plainness and freedom of my opinion ,  This foretells some strange eruption to our state . 
who is't that can inform me ? 	who is the man who can explain this to me ? 
that can I; At least the whisper goes so . 	I can explain it ,  At least ,  what’s on the grapevine . 
I think it be no other but e'en so . 	I think it can be no other reason but that . 
well may it sort that this portentous figure Comes armed through our watch ,  so like the King That was and is the question of these wars . 	well it may turn out that this warning figure Comes armed through our watch ,  looking so like the king That was and is the question of these wars . 
a mote it is to trouble the mind's eye . 	It is a speck of dust to irritate the mind's eye . 
In the most high and palmy state of Rome ,  A little ere the mightiest Julius fell ,  The graves stood tenantless ,  and the sheeted dead Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets; As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood ,  Disasters in the sun; and the moist star ,  Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse . 	In the most high and palm tree - like state of Rome ,  A little before the mightiest Julius Caesar was killed ,  The graves had no bodies ,  and the dead in sheets Squeaked and gibbered in the Roman streets ,  And stars with trains of fire and red morning dews ,  Disasters in the sun . 
and even the like precurse of feared events ,  As harbingers preceding still the fates And prologue to the omen coming on ,  Have heaven and earth together demonstrated Unto our climature and countrymen . 	and like similar forecasters of fierce events ,  As the advance team before the fates ,  And prologue to the omen coming on ,  Heaven and earth have together demonstrated To our country and countrymen . 
lo ,  where it comes again ! 	look where it comes again ! 
I'll cross it ,  though it blast me . 	I’ll cross it ,  though it kill me . 
stay illusion ! 	stay ,  illusion ! 
stay ,  and speak ! 	stay ,  and speak ! 
stop it ,  Marcellus ! 	stop it ,  Marcellus ! 
shall I strike at it with my partisan ? 	shall I strike at it with my club ? 
do ,  if it will not stand . 	go ahead ,  if it will not stand . 
tis here ! 	It is here ! 
tis here ! 	It is here ! 
tis gone ! 	It is gone ! 
we do it wrong ,  being so majestical ,  To offer it the show of violence; For it is ,  as the air ,  invulnerable ,  And our vain blows malicious mockery . 	we do it wrong ,  its being so like the king ,  To offer it the show of violence ,  Because it is ,  like the air ,  unable to be hurt ,  And our empty blows seem like a malicious joke . 
It was about to speak ,  when the cock crew . 	It was about to speak ,  when the rooster crowed . 
and then it started ,  like a guilty thing Upon a fearful summons . 	and then it seemed startled ,  like a guilty thing Running from a court order . 
I have heard The cock ,  that is the trumpet to the morn ,  Doth with his lofty and shrill - sounding throat Awake the god of day ,  and at his warning ,  Whether in sea or fire ,  in earth or air ,  The extravagant and erring spirit hies To his confine; and of the truth herein This present object made probation . 	I have heard The rooster ,  that is the trumpet of the morning ,  With his lofty and shrill - sounding throat ,  Awakes the god of day ,  and ,  at his warning ,  Whether in sea or fire ,  in earth or air ,  The straying and wandering spirit hurries back To his grave . 
It faded on the crowing of the cock . 	It faded on the crowing of the rooster . 
so have I heard and do in part believe it . 	I’ve heard that too ,  and partly believe it . 
but look ,  the morn ,  in russet mantle clad ,  Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill . 	but ,  look ,  the morning ,  dressed in a red cape ,  Walks over the dew of that high hill in the east . 
break we our watch up; and by my advice Let us impart what we have seen tonight Unto young Hamlet; for ,  upon my life ,  This spirit ,  dumb to us ,  will speak to him . 	let’s break up our watch ,  and I think We should tell all we have seen tonight To young Hamlet ,  for ,  I swear on my life ,  This spirit ,  silent to us ,  will speak to him . 
do you consent we shall acquaint him with it ,  As needful in our loves ,  fitting our duty ? 	do you agree that we shall tell him ,  Because we love him and it is our duty ? 
let's do't ,  I pray: and I this morning know Where we shall find him most conveniently . 	let's do it ,  I beg you ,  and I know exactly Where we shall easily find him . 
nor have we herein barr'd Your better wisdoms ,  which have freely gone With this affair along . 	we have not disregarded Your good advice ,  which has freely gone Along with this affair . 
for all ,  our thanks . 	to all ,  our thanks . 
now follows ,  that you know ,  young Fortinbras ,  Holding a weak supposal of our worth ,  Or thinking by our late dear brother's death Our state to be disjoint and out of frame ,  Colleagued with this dream of his advantage ,  He hath not fail'd to pester us with message ,  Importing the surrender of those lands Lost by his father ,  with all bonds of law ,  To our most valiant brother . 	I will tell you now ,  as you know ,  young Fortinbras ,  Not thinking very much of us ,  Or thinking that our late dear brother's death Made our country disorganized and no longer powerful ,  Conspiring with this dream of his advantage ,  Has not failed to pester us with messages ,  Asking us to the surrender of those lands Lost by his father ,  within all the rules of law ,  To our most valiant brother . 
so much for him . 	so much for him ! 
now for ourself ,  and for this time of meeting . 	now what we have done so far Is this . 
thus much the business is: we have here writ To Norway ,  uncle of young Fortinbras— Who ,  impotent and bed - rid ,  scarcely hears Of this his nephew's purpose—to suppress His further gait herein ,  in that the levies ,  The lists ,  and full proportions ,  are all made Out of his subject; and we here dispatch You ,  good Cornelius ,  and you ,  Voltimand ,  For bearers of this greeting to old Norway ,  Giving to you no further personal power To business with the King ,  more than the scope Of these dilated articles allow . 	we have here written To Norway ,  uncle of young Fortinbras ,  Who ,  impotent and bed - rid ,  knows nothing Of his nephew's intentions ,  to stop His further progress in this plan because the levies ,  The lists ,  and full proportions are all made Without his knowledge ,  and we are sending You ,  good Cornelius ,  and you ,  Voltimand ,  To take this greeting to old Norway ,  Without giving you any further personal power To do business with the king ,  more than the scope Of these detailed items allow . 
farewell ,  and let your haste commend your duty . 	farewell and hurry to do your duty . 
In that and all things will we show our duty . 	In that and all things ,  we will show our duty . 
we doubt it nothing . 	we do not doubt it . 
heartily farewell . 	heartily ,  farewell . 
and now ,  Laertes ,  what's the news with you ? 	and now ,  Laertes ,  what's the news with you ? 
you told us of some suit . 	you told us you want something . 
what is't ,  Laertes ? 	what is it ,  Laertes ? 
you cannot speak of reason to the Dane ,  And lose your voice . 	you cannot start to ask the King of Denmark ,  And then stop . 
what wouldst thou beg ,  Laertes ,  That shall not be my offer ,  not thy asking ? 	what do you want ,  Laertes ,  That I shall not my offer before you ask ? 
the head is not more native to the heart ,  The hand more instrumental to the mouth ,  Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father . 	the head is not more native to the heart ,  The hand more instrumental to the mouth ,  Than is the throne of Denmark to your father . 
what wouldst thou have ,  Laertes ? 	what would you ask ,  Laertes ? 
have you your father's leave ? 	have you your father's permission ? 
what says Polonius ? 	what says Polonius ? 
he hath ,  my lord ,  wrung from me my slow leave By laboursome petition ,  and at last Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent . 	my lord ,  he has wrung from me my reluctant permission By asking me again and again ,  and I Finally had to give in . 
I do beseech you ,  give him leave to go . 	I do beg you ,  give him permission to go . 
how is it that the clouds still hang on you ? 	how is it that the clouds still hang on you ? 
not so ,  my lord: I am too much i' the sun . 	that’s not so ,  my lord ,  I am too much in the sun . 
good Hamlet ,  cast thy nighted color off ,  And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark . 	good Hamlet ,  take off your black looks ,  And let your eye look on the King like a friend . 
do not for ever with thy vailed lids Seek for thy noble father in the dust . 	don’t look for your noble father on the ground Forever with sad eyes . 
ay ,  madam ,  it is common . 	yes ,  madam ,  that’s the way it goes . 
If it be ,  Why seems it so particular with thee ? 	If that’s the way it goes ,  Why does it seem unusual with you ? 
seems ,  madam ? 	seem ?  ”  ,  madam ! 
nay ,  it is . 	no ,  it is . 
fie ! 	for shame ! 
tis a fault to heaven ,  A fault against the dead ,  a fault to nature ,  To reason most absurd ,  whose common theme Is death of fathers ,  and who still hath cried ,  From the first corse till he that died today ,  This must be so . 	It is a sin to heaven ,  A sin against the dead ,  a sin to nature ,  Most ridiculous to reason ,  whose common theme Is death of fathers ,  and who still has cried ,  From the first corpse to the man who died just today ,   ” This must be so .  ”  We beg you ,  give up on This unusual grief ,  and think of us As of a father . 
we pray you throw to earth This unprevailing woe ,  and think of us As of a father; for let the world take note You are the most immediate to our throne ,  And with no less nobility of love Than that which dearest father bears his son Do I impart toward you . 	because ,  let the whole world know ,  You are the next in line to our throne ,  And ,  I give you my love ,  with no less nobility Than the love which the dearest father Bears his son . 
for your intent In going back to school in Wittenberg ,  It is most retrograde to our desire; And we beseech you ,  bend you to remain Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye ,  Our chiefest courtier ,  cousin ,  and our son . 	as for your intentions To go back to school in Wittenberg ,  Leaving here is not something that we want ,  And we beg you to give into remaining Here in the happiness and pleasure of our eyes ,  Our most important courtier ,  cousin ,  and our son . 
let not thy mother lose her prayers ,  Hamlet . 	don’t let my prayers go unanswered ,  Hamlet . 
I pray thee ,  stay with us ,  go not to Wittenberg . 	I beg you to stay with us ,  don’t go to Wittenberg . 
I shall in all my best obey you ,  madam . 	I’ll do my best to obey you ,  madam . 
why ,  'tis a loving and a fair reply . 	why ,  it is a loving and a fair reply . 
be as ourself in Denmark . 	behave as we would in Denmark . 
come away . 	let’s go . 
o God ! 	o God ! 
god ! 	o God ! 
how weary ,  stale ,  flat and unprofitable Seem to me all the uses of this world ! 	how weary ,  stale ,  flat ,  and unprofitable All the habits of this world seem to me ! 
fie on't ! 	shame on it ! 
ah ,  fie ! 	o for shame ! 
tis an unweeded garden That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature Possess it merely . 	It is an unweeded garden That is going to seed ,  only things that are decaying and Disgusting grow there . 
that it should come to this ! 	that it should come to this ! 
but two months dead ! 	only dead for two months ! 
heaven and earth ! 	heaven and earth ! 
must I remember ? 	must I remember ? 
frailty ,  thy name is woman— A little month ,  or ere those shoes were old With which she follow'd my poor father's body Like Niobe ,  all tears—why she ,  even she— O God ! 	weakness ,  your name is woman — A little month ,  even before those shoes with which she Followed my poor father's body were old ,  she was Totally inconsolable ,  all tears ,  why she ,  even she— O God ! 
a beast that wants discourse of reason Would have mourn'd longer—married with my uncle ,  My father's brother ,  but no more like my father Than I to Hercules . 	a beast that lacks the gift of reason ,  Would have mourned longer— married my uncle ,  My father's brother ,  but no more like my father Than I am like Hercules . 
within a month ,  Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears Had left the flushing in her galled eyes ,  She married . 	within a month ,  Before the salt of the most wicked tears Had left the redness in her bitter eyes ,  She married . 
o ,  most wicked speed ,  to post With such dexterity to incestuous sheets ! 	o ,  most wicked speed ,  to travel With such quickness to incestuous sheets ! 
It is not ,  nor it cannot come to ,  good . 	It is not good and it cannot come to good . 
but break ,  my heart ,  for I must hold my tongue ! 	but ,  break my heart ,  for I must be silent ! 
hail to your lordship ! 	greetings to your lordship ! 
I am glad to see you well . 	I am glad to see you well . 
horatio—or I do forget myself . 	or I do forget myself ! 
the same ,  my lord ,  and your poor servant ever . 	It’s me ,  my lord ,  and your poor servant forever . 
and what make you from Wittenberg ,  Horatio ? — Marcellus ? 	and why are you here from Wittenberg ,  Horatio ? 
a truant disposition ,  good my lord . 	a lazy disposition ,  my good lord . 
I would not hear your enemy say so ,  Nor shall you do my ear that violence To make it truster of your own report Against yourself . 	I wouldn’t even hear your enemy say so ,  And you shall not violently throw those words to my ear ,  To make my ear the keeper of your own report Against yourself . 
I know you are no truant . 	I know you are not lazy . 
but what is your affair in Elsinore ? 	but what are you doing in Elsinore ? 
we'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart . 	we'll teach you to drink a lot before you leave ! 
my lord ,  I came to see your father's funeral . 	my lord ,  I came to see your father's funeral . 
I prithee do not mock me ,  fellow student . 	please don’t mock me ,  fellow - student . 
I think it was to see my mother's wedding . 	I think it was to see my mother's wedding . 
Indeed ,  my lord ,  it followed hard upon . 	Indeed ,  my lord ,  it followed very soon after . 
thrift ,  thrift ,  Horatio . 	thrift ,  thrift ,  Horatio ! 
the funeral baked meats Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables . 	the meats baked for the funeral Were also put on the marriage tables . 
would I had met my dearest foe in heaven Or ever I had seen that day ,  Horatio ! 	I wish I had met my dearest enemy in heaven Before I had ever seen that day ,  Horatio ! 
my father—methinks I see my father . 	my father… I think I see my father . 
o ,  where ,  my lord ? 	where ,  my lord ? 
In my mind's eye ,  Horatio . 	In my mind's eye ,  Horatio . 
he was a man ,  take him for all in all; I shall not look upon his like again . 	he was a man ,  take him for all in all ,  I shall not look upon his like again . 
my lord ,  I think I saw him yesternight . 	my lord ,  I think I saw him last night . 
my lord ,  the King your father . 	my lord ,  the king your father . 
the King my father ? 	the King my father ! 
season your admiration for a while With an attent ear ,  till I may deliver Upon the witness of these gentlemen ,  This marvel to you . 	hold off your compliments for awhile And pay attention ,  until I may deliver ,  With the witness of these gentlemen ,  Something marvelous to you . 
for God's love let me hear ! 	for God's love ,  let me hear what you have to say . 
but where was this ? 	but where was this ? 
my lord ,  upon the platform where we watch'd . 	my lord ,  on the platform where we watched . 
did you not speak to it ? 	didn’t you speak to it ? 
my lord ,  I did; But answer made it none . 	my lord ,  I did ,  But it made me no answer . 
tis very strange . 	It is very strange . 
as I do live ,  my honour'd lord ,  'tis true; And we did think it writ down in our duty To let you know of it . 	I swear ,  my honored lord ,  it is true ,  And we thought it was our duty To let you know about it . 
hold you the watch tonight ? 	are you going to watch again tonight ? 
we do ,  my lord . 	we are ,  my lord . 
arm'd ,  say you ? 	he was armed ,  you say ? 
arm'd ,  my lord . 	armed ,  my lord . 
from top to toe ? 	from top to toe ? 
my lord ,  from head to foot . 	my lord ,  from head to foot . 
then saw you not his face ? 	then you didn’t see his face ? 
o ,  yes ,  my lord ! 	o ,  yes ,  my lord . 
he wore his beaver up . 	he had the front visor of his helmet up . 
what ,  look'd he frowningly ? 	what ,  did he look like he was frowning ? 
a countenance more in sorrow than in anger . 	his face showed more sorrow than anger . 
pale ,  or red ? 	was he pale or red ? 
nay ,  very pale . 	no ,  very pale . 
and fix'd his eyes upon you ? 	and he fixed his eyes on you ? 
most constantly . 	most constantly . 
I would I had been there . 	I wish I had been there . 
It would have much amazed you . 	It would have amazed you very much . 
very like ,  very like . 	I’m sure it would’ve ,  I’m sure it would’ve . 
stay'd it long ? 	did it stay long ? 
while one with moderate haste might tell a hundred . 	as long as an average person might count to a hundred . 
longer ,  longer . 	longer ,  longer . 
not when I saw't . 	not when I saw it . 
his beard was grizzled ,  no ? 	his beard was grizzly ,  no ? 
It was as I have seen it in his life ,  A sable silvered . 	It was ,  as I have seen it in his life ,  A silvery sable . 
I warrant it will . 	I guarantee it will . 
If it assume my noble father's person ,  I'll speak to it ,  though hell itself should gape And bid me hold my peace . 	If it takes on my noble father's appearance ,  I’ll speak to it ,  though hell itself should open wide And order me to be silent . 
I pray you all ,  If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight ,  Let it be tenable in your silence still; And whatsoever else shall hap tonight ,  Give it an understanding ,  but no tongue . 	I beg you all ,  If you have kept this sight secret so far ,  Keep your silence still ,  And whatever else shall happen tonight ,  Take it in ,  but don’t talk about it . 
I will requite your loves . 	I will reward your loyalty . 
so ,  fare you well . 	so ,  goodbye for now . 
upon the platform ,  'twixt eleven and twelve ,  I'll visit you . 	on the platform ,  between eleven and twelve ,  I’ll visit you . 
our duty to your honour . 	our duty to your honor . 
your loves ,  as mine to you . 	your loyalty ,  as mine to you . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
my father's spirit in arms ! 	my father's spirit in arms ! 
would the night were come . 	I wish the night were here now ! 
till then sit still ,  my soul . 	until then ,  sit still ,  my soul . 
foul deeds will rise ,  Though all the earth o'erwhelm them ,  to men's eyes . 	wicked deeds will rise to be Seen even if they are buried very deep in the earth . 
my necessaries are embark'd . 	the things I need are all on the ship . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
and ,  sister ,  as the winds give benefit And convoy is assistant ,  do not sleep ,  But let me hear from you . 	and ,  sister ,  as the winds will be favorable And the ships are strong to sail ,  don’t sleep ,  Until you let me hear from you . 
do you doubt that ? 	do you doubt that ? 
for Hamlet ,  and the trifling of his favours ,  Hold it a fashion ,  and a toy in blood; A violet in the youth of primy nature ,  Forward ,  not permanent ,  sweet ,  not lasting; The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more . 	as for Hamlet and the foolishness of his attentions ,  Think that it is only a phase and a toy in blood . 
think it no more . 	nothing more than that ? 
for nature ,  crescent ,  does not grow alone In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes ,  The inward service of the mind and soul Grows wide withal . 	stop thinking about it ,  Because nature ,  the moon ,  does not grow alone In strength and size ,  but as this temple grows ,  The inward duty of the mind and soul Grows wide along with the rest . 
he may not ,  as unvalued persons do ,  Carve for himself; for on his choice depends The safety and health of this whole state ,  And therefore must his choice be circumscribed Unto the voice and yielding of that body Whereof he is the head . 	he may not ,  as lower persons do ,  Select for himself ,  for on his choice depends The safety and health of this whole state ,  And therefore must his choice be subject To the voice and consent of that state That he is the head of . 
then if he says he loves you ,  It fits your wisdom so far to believe it As he in his particular act and place May give his saying deed; which is no further Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal . 	then if he says he loves you ,  You would be wise to believe it Because then being in his particular act and place May do what he says ,  which is what The majority of people in of Denmark go along with . 
then weigh what loss your honour may sustain If with too credent ear you list his songs ,  Or lose your heart ,  or your chaste treasure open To his unmast'red importunity . 	so decide what loss your honor may receive If you listen to his songs with a too believing ear ,  Or lose your heart ,  or lose your virginity To his wild sense of bad timing . 
fear it ,  Ophelia ,  fear it ,  my dear sister ,  And keep you in the rear of your affection ,  Out of the shot and danger of desire . 	fear it ,  Ophelia ,  fear it ,  my dear sister ,  And keep your affections deep within you ,  Out of the range and danger of desire . 
the chariest maid is prodigal enough If she unmask her beauty to the moon . 	the most careful maid is wasteful enough If she unmasks her beauty to the moon . 
virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes . 	virtue itself doesn’t aim at lying deeds . 
the canker galls the infants of the spring Too oft before their buttons be disclosed ,  And in the morn and liquid dew of youth Contagious blastments are most imminent . 	an ugly disease afflicts the new flowers of the spring Too often before they have bloomed ,  And in the morning and liquid dew of youth Contagious shriveling is the most imminent . 
youth to itself rebels ,  though none else near . 	youth rebels against itself ,  even if no one else is near . 
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep As watchman to my heart . 	I shall keep the purpose of this good lesson As watchman to my heart . 
but ,  good my brother ,  Do not ,  as some ungracious pastors do ,  Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven ,  Whilst ,  like a puff'd and reckless libertine ,  Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads And recks not his own rede . 	but ,  my good brother ,  Don’t ,  as some insincere ministers do ,  Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven ,  While ,  like a proud and reckless wild man ,  Preaches against the primrose path of sin And does not practice what he preaches . 
o ,  fear me not ! 	o ,  don’t be afraid of me . 
I stay too long . 	I’ve stayed too long . 
but here my father comes . 	but here comes my father . 
a double blessing is a double grace; Occasion smiles upon a second leave . 	a double blessing is a double grace ,  It’s a better occasion to smile at saying goodbye again . 
yet here ,  Laertes ? 	you’re still here ,  Laertes ! 
aboard ,  aboard ,  for shame ! 	aboard ,  aboard ,  for shame ! 
the wind sits in the shoulder of your sail ,  And you are stay'd for . 	the wind sits in the best part of your sail ,  And the ship waits for you . 
there ,  my blessing with thee . 	there ,  my blessing with you ! 
and these few precepts in thy memory See thou character . 	and see that you write these few precepts In your memory . 
give thy thoughts no tongue ,  Nor any unproportion'd thought his act . 	give your thoughts to yourself ,  And don’t act without thinking . 
be thou familiar ,  but by no means vulgar . 	be friendly ,  but by no means vulgar . 
those friends thou hast ,  and their adoption tried ,  Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel; But do not dull thy palm with entertainment Of each new - hatch'd ,  unfledged comrade . 	those friends you have ,  and their friendship tested ,  Anchor them to your soul with hoops of steel ,  But don’t spend your money on entertaining Each newly acquired ,  unproven friend . 
beware Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in ,  Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee . 	beware Of getting into a quarrel ,  but ,  once you are in ,  Fight so that the man you fight with may beware of you . 
this above all: to thine own self be true ,  And it must follow ,  as the night the day ,  Thou canst not then be false to any man . 	this above all ,  to your own self be true ,  And it must follow ,  as the night the day ,  You cannot then be false to any man . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
my blessing season this in thee ! 	my blessing instill these things in you ! 
most humbly do I take my leave ,  my lord . 	I take my leave most humbly ,  my lord . 
farewell ,  Ophelia ,  and remember well What I have said to you . 	goodbye ,  Ophelia ,  and remember well What I have said to you . 
tis in my memory lock'd ,  And you yourself shall keep the key of it . 	It is locked in my memory ,  And you yourself shall keep the key of it . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
what is't ,  Ophelia ,  he hath said to you ? 	what is it ,  Ophelia ,  that he has said to you ? 
so please you ,  something touching the Lord Hamlet . 	If it pleases you ,  something touching the Lord Hamlet . 
marry ,  well bethought ! 	by Mary ,  well thought . 
what is between you ? 	what is going on between you ? 
give me up the truth . 	tell me the truth . 
he hath ,  my lord ,  of late made many tenders Of his affection to me . 	my lord ,  he has of late made many offers Of his affection to me . 
affection ? 	affection ! 
pooh ! 	pooh ! 
you speak like a green girl ,  Unsifted in such perilous circumstance . 	you speak like a green girl ,  Ignorant in such dangerous circumstances . 
do you believe his tenders ,  as you call them ? 	do you believe his  “ offers ,  ”  as you call them ? 
I do not know ,  my lord ,  what I should think . 	my lord ,  I don’t know what I should think . 
marry ,  I'll teach you . 	by Mary ,  I’ll teach you . 
think yourself a baby ,  That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay ,  Which are not sterling . 	think that you are a baby ,  That you have taken these offers for true love ,  Which are not true offers . 
tender yourself more dearly ,  Or—not to crack the wind of the poor phrase ,  Running it thus—you'll tender me a fool . 	consider yourself more dearly ,  Or ,  not to keep harping on that poor phrase ,  Doing harm to it ,  you'll  “ offer ”  me a fool ! 
my lord ,  he hath importuned me with love In honourable fashion . 	my lord ,  he has courted me with love In honorable fashion . 
and hath given countenance to his speech ,  my lord ,  With almost all the holy vows of heaven . 	and has given proper appearance to his speech ,  my lord ,  With almost all the holy vows of heaven . 
ay ,  springes to catch woodcocks . 	yes ,  mousetraps to catch fools . 
I do know ,  When the blood burns ,  how prodigal the soul Lends the tongue vows . 	I do know ,  When passion burns the blood ,  how the wasteful soul Gives the tongue vows to speak . 
these blazes ,  daughter ,  Giving more light than heat ,  extinct in both Even in their promise ,  as it is a - making ,  You must not take for fire . 	these blazes ,  daughter ,  Giving more light than heat ,  dead in both ,  Even in their promises ,  dying as they are being made ,  Must not be taken for real fire . 
for Lord Hamlet ,  Believe so much in him ,  that he is young ,  And with a larger tether may he walk Than may be given you . 	as for Lord Hamlet ,  Only believe so much about him ,  that he is young ,  And he may walk on a higher mountain Than may be given you . 
In few ,  Ophelia ,  Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers ,  Not of that dye which their investments show ,  But mere implorators of unholy suits ,  Breathing like sanctified and pious bonds ,  The better to beguile . 	In short ,  Ophelia ,  Don’t believe his vows ,  because they are pimps ,  Not made of those things which show outside ,  But mere beggars of unholy courtships ,  Breathing like holy and righteous procurers ,  The better to deceive you . 
look to't ,  I charge you . 	do as I say ,  I order you . 
come your ways . 	let’s go . 
I shall obey ,  my lord . 	I shall obey ,  my lord . 
the air bites shrewdly; it is very cold . 	the air bites sharply ,  It is very cold . 
It is a nipping and an eager air . 	It is a nipping and an eager air . 
what hour now ? 	what time is it now ? 
I think it lacks of twelve . 	I think it’s just before twelve . 
no ,  it is struck . 	no ,  the clock has already struck twelve . 
Indeed ? 	Indeed ? 
I heard it not . 	I didn’t hear it . 
It then draws near the season Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk . 	then it’s getting close to the time When the spirit has his habit of walking . 
what doth this mean ,  my lord ? 	what does that mean ,  my lord ? 
the King doth wake tonight and takes his rouse ,  Keeps wassail ,  and the swaggering upspring reels ,  And as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down ,  The kettle - drum and trumpet thus bray out The triumph of his pledge . 	the King stays awake tonight and has a drinking party ,  Keeps toasting ,  and the swaggering morning whirls ,  And ,  as he drinks down his drafts of Rhine wine ,  The kettle - drum and trumpet thus noisily announce The triumph of his drinking it all down at once . 
Is it a custom ? 	Is it a custom ? 
ay ,  marry ,  is't; But to my mind ,  though I am native here And to the manner born ,  it is a custom More honour'd in the breach than the observance . 	yes ,  by Mary ,  it is ,  But to my mind ,  though I am a native here ,  And know the customs since birth ,  it is a custom More honored in the braking it than the observing it . 
so ,  oft it chances in particular men ,  That for some vicious mole of nature in them ,  As in their birth—wherein they are not guilty ,  Since nature cannot choose his origin— By the o'ergrowth of some complexion ,  Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason ,  Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens The form of plausive manners ,  that these men— Carrying ,  I say ,  the stamp of one defect ,  Being nature's livery ,  or fortune's star— Their virtues else—be they as pure as grace ,  As infinite as man may undergo— Shall in the general censure take corruption From that particular fault . 	so often it might happen in particular men That ,  for some vicious disfigurement of nature in them ,  Like a birthmark— something they are not guilty of Because a man cannot choose how he is born— By the overdevelopment of some temperament ,  That often defies the intelligent use of reason ,  Or by some habit ,  that too much exceeds The limits of acceptable behavior ,  that these men ,  Carrying ,  I say ,  the stamp of one defect ,  Being the result of nature ,  or a star of fortune ,  Whatever other virtues they have ,  even if they are As pure as grace ,  as infinite as men may have ,  Shall in the general opinion be labeled corrupt From that one particular fault . 
the dram of evil Doth all the noble substance of a doubt To his own scandal . 	the drop of affliction Often causes doubt about all the virtues they have To men’s own disgrace . 
look ,  my lord ,  it comes ! 	look ,  my lord ,  it comes ! 
angels and ministers of grace defend us ! 	angels and ministers of grace defend us ! 
be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd ,  Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell ,  Be thy intents wicked or charitable ,  Thou comest in such a questionable shape That I will speak to thee . 	whether you are a spirit of health or a goblin damned ,  Bringing with you airs from heaven or blasts from hell ,  Whether your intentions are wicked or charitable ,  You come in such a questionable shape That I will speak to you . 
o ,  answer me ! 	o ,  answer me ! 
let me not burst in ignorance ,  but tell Why thy canonized bones ,  hearsed in death ,  Have burst their cerements ,  why the sepulchre Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd ,  Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws To cast thee up again . 	don’t let me burst in ignorance ,  but tell me Why your sacred bones ,  buried in death ,  Have escaped from the cemetery ,  why the tomb Wherein we saw you quietly laid to rest ,  Has opened his frightening and marble jaws To bring you back to life ! 
what may this mean That thou ,  dead corse ,  again ,  in complete steel ,  Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon ,  Making night hideous ,  and we fools of nature So horridly to shake our disposition With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls ? 	what does this mean ,  That you ,  dead corpse ,  again in full armor ,  Revisit us in the light and shadows of the moon ,  Making night hideous ,  and making us fools of nature Shake our dispositions so horridly With thoughts that go beyond the reaches of our souls ? 
say ,  why is this ? 	say ,  why is this ? 
wherefore ? 	why ? 
what should we do ? 	what should we do ? 
It beckons you to go away with it ,  As if it some impartment did desire To you alone . 	It beckons you to go away with it ,  As if it had something to say To you alone . 
look with what courteous action It waves you to a more removed ground . 	look with what courteous action It waves you to a more private ground . 
but do not go with it ! 	but don’t go with it ! 
no ,  by no means . 	no ,  by no means . 
It will not speak; then will I follow it . 	If it will not speak ,  then I will follow it . 
do not ,  my lord ! 	don’t ,  my lord . 
why ,  what should be the fear ? 	why ,  what should I be afraid of ? 
I do not set my life at a pin's fee; And for my soul ,  what can it do to that ,  Being a thing immortal as itself ? 	I don’t value my life at the price of a pin ,  And as for my soul ,  what can it do to that ,  Being a thing that is immortal as it is ? 
It waves me forth again . 	It waves me forward again . 
I'll follow it . 	I’ll follow it . 
what if it tempt you toward the flood ,  my lord ,  Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff That beetles o'er his base into the sea ,  And there assume some other horrible form ,  Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason And draw you into madness ? 	what if it tempts you toward the ocean ,  my lord ,  Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff That hangs so threateningly over his base into the sea ,  And once there ,  assumes some other horrible form Which might deprive you of the ability to think ,  And draw you into madness ? 
think of it . 	think about it . 
the very place puts toys of desperation ,  Without more motive ,  into every brain That looks so many fathoms to the sea And hears it roar beneath . 	the very place puts desperate ideas ,  Without any motive ,  into every brain That looks so many fathoms into the sea And hears it roar beneath . 
It waves me still . 	It waves me still . 
go on; I'll follow thee . 	go on ,  I’ll follow you . 
you shall not go ,  my lord . 	you shall not go ,  my lord . 
hold off your hands ! 	hold off your hands . 
you shall not go . 	listen to me: you shall not go . 
my fate cries out ,  And makes each petty artery in this body As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve . 	my fate cries out ,  And makes each and every vein in this body As hardy as the nerve of the lion killed by Hercules . 
by heaven ,  I'll make a ghost of him that lets me . 	by heaven ,  I’ll make a ghost of him that holds me back ! 
I say ,  away ! 	I say ,  get away from me ! 
he waxes desperate with imagination . 	he’s getting crazy with expectation ! 
have after . 	let’s do it . 
to what issue will this come ? 	what will all this lead to ? 
something is rotten in the state of Denmark . 	something is rotten in the state of Denmark . 
heaven will direct it . 	heaven will guide its course . 
nay ,  let's follow him . 	no ,  let's follow him . 
whither wilt thou lead me ? 	where will you lead me ? 
speak ! 	speak ! 
I'll go no further . 	I’ll go no further . 
mark me . 	listen to me . 
I will . 	I will . 
pity me not ,  but lend thy serious hearing To what I shall unfold . 	don’t pity me ,  but listen seriously To what I shall disclose to you . 
speak; I am bound to hear . 	speak ,  I am obliged to listen . 
so art thou to revenge ,  when thou shalt hear . 	so you are obliged to revenge ,  when you shall hear me . 
what ! 	what ? 
I am thy father's spirit ,  Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night ,  And for the day confined to fast in fires ,  Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature Are burnt and purged away . 	I am your father's spirit ,  Doomed for a certain time to walk the night ,  And during the day I am confined to burn in fires ,  Until the evil crimes I had done in my life Are burnt and purged away . 
but that I am forbid To tell the secrets of my prison - house ,  I could a tale unfold whose lightest word Would harrow up thy soul ,  freeze thy young blood ,  Make thy two eyes ,  like stars ,  start from their spheres ,  Thy knotted and combined locks to part ,  And each particular hair to stand an end Like quills upon the fretful porpentine . 	If I were not forbidden To tell the secrets of my prison house ,  I could tell a tale whose lightest word Would crush your soul ,  freeze your young blood ,  Make your two eyes ,  like stars ,  jump from their sockets ,  Your knotted and combined hair to separate ,  And each particular hair to stand on end Like quills on the angry porcupine . 
but this eternal blazon must not be To ears of flesh and blood . 	but this eternal description must not be given To ears of flesh and blood . 
list ,  list ,  O ,  list ! 	listen ,  listen ,  O ,  listen ! 
If thou didst ever thy dear father love— O God ! 	If you ever loved your dear father — O God ! 
revenge his foul and most unnatural murder . 	revenge his foul and most unnatural murder . 
murder ? 	murder ! 
murder most foul ,  as in the best it is; But this most foul ,  strange ,  and unnatural . 	murder most foul ,  as even at best it is still murder ,  But this murder is the most foul ,  strange ,  and unnatural . 
haste me to know't ,  that I ,  with wings as swift As meditation or the thoughts of love ,  May sweep to my revenge . 	tell me about it quickly ,  so that I ,  with wings as swift As meditation or the thoughts of love ,  May rush to my revenge . 
I find thee apt; And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf ,  Wouldst thou not stir in this . 	I find you ready ,  And if you were duller than the fat weed That rots itself in ease on the river bank ,  You wouldn’t move on this . 
now ,  Hamlet ,  hear . 	now ,  Hamlet ,  listen . 
tis given out that ,  sleeping in mine orchard ,  A serpent stung me . 	the story goes that ,  sleeping in my orchard ,  A serpent bit me . 
o my prophetic soul ! 	o my prophetic soul ! 
my uncle ! 	my uncle ! 
o Hamlet ,  what a falling off was there ! 	o Hamlet ,  what a falling - off there was in our marriage ! 
but virtue ,  as it never will be moved ,  Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven ,  So lust ,  though to a radiant angel link'd ,  Will sate itself in a celestial bed And prey on garbage . 	but as virtue can never be moved ,  it Was courted though lewdness in a shape of heaven ,  And lust ,  though linked to a radiant angel ,  Will satisfy itself in a heavenly bed And eat garbage . 
but soft ! 	but wait ! 
o ,  horrible ! 	o ,  horrible ! 
o ,  horrible ! 	o ,  horrible ! 
most horrible ! 	most horrible ! 
but ,  howsoever thou pursuest this act ,  Taint not thy mind ,  nor let thy soul contrive Against thy mother aught . 	but ,  however you pursue this revenge ,  Don’t taint your mind ,  or let your soul plan Anything against your mother . 
leave her to heaven ,  And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge To prick and sting her . 	leave her to heaven ,  And to those thorns that live in her bosom ,  To prick and sting her . 
fare thee well at once . 	goodbye now ! 
the glow - worm shows the matin to be near And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire . 	the glowworm shows the morning is near ,  And he begins to put out his ineffective fire . 
adieu ,  adieu ,  adieu ! 	goodbye ,  goodbye ! 
remember me . 	hamlet ,  remember me . 
o all you host of heaven ! 	o all you host of heaven ! 
o earth ! 	o earth ! 
what else ? 	what else ? 
and shall I couple hell ? 	and shall I join forces hell ? 
o ,  fie ! 	o ,  for shame ! 
remember thee ? 	remember you ! 
ay ,  thou poor ghost ,  while memory holds a seat In this distracted globe . 	yes ,  you poor ghost ,  while memory holds a seat In this confused world . 
remember thee ? 	remember you ! 
yea ,  from the table of my memory I'll wipe away all trivial fond records ,  All saws of books ,  all forms ,  all pressures past ,  That youth and observation copied there; And thy commandment all alone shall live Within the book and volume of my brain ,  Unmix'd with baser matter . 	yes ,  from the table of my memory I’ll wipe away all unimportant records ,  All kinds of books ,  all pictures ,  all pressures past ,  That my youth and observations wrote there ,  And your commandment all by itself shall live Within the book and volume of my brain ,  Unmixed with other low thoughts . 
yes ,  by heaven ! 	yes ,  by heaven ! 
o most pernicious woman ! 	o most pernicious woman ! 
o villain ,  villain ,  smiling ,  damned villain ! 	o villain ,  villain ,  smiling ,  damned villain ! 
my tables—meet it is I set it down That one may smile ,  and smile ,  and be a villain; At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark . 	my papers ,  it is just that I set it all down ,  That one may smile ,  and smile ,  and be a villain ,  At least ,  I am sure ,  it may be so in Denmark . 
so ,  uncle ,  there you are . 	so ,  uncle ,  there you are . 
now to my word: It is ‘Adieu ,  adieu ! 	now to my word: It is Goodbye ,  goodbye ! 
remember me . ’ I have sworn't . 	remember me . 
my lord ,  my lord ! 	I have sworn it . 
so be it ! 	so be it ! 
Illo ,  ho ,  ho ,  my lord ! 	hello ,  ho ,  ho ,  my lord ! 
hillo ,  ho ,  ho ,  boy ! 	hello ,  ho ,  ho ,  boy ! 
come ,  bird ,  come . 	come ,  bird ,  come . 
how is't ,  my noble lord ? 	how are you ,  my noble lord ? 
what news ,  my lord ? 	what news ,  my lord ? 
o ,  wonderful ! 	o ,  wonderful ! 
good my lord ,  tell it . 	my good lord ,  tell it . 
no; you will reveal it . 	no ,  you'll reveal it . 
not I ,  my lord ,  by heaven ! 	not I ,  my lord ,  by heaven . 
nor I ,  my lord . 	nor I ,  my lord . 
how say you ,  then; would heart of man once think it ? 	what do you say then ,  would heart of man once think it ? 
but you'll be secret ? 	and you'll keep it secret ? 
ay ,  by heaven ,  my lord . 	yes ,  by heaven ,  my lord . 
there's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark But he's an arrant knave . 	there's never a villain dwelling in all Denmark Except that he's an arrant knave . 
there needs no ghost ,  my lord ,  come from the grave To tell us this . 	we don’t need a ghost ,  my lord ,  to come from the grave To tell us this . 
these are but wild and whirling words ,  my lord . 	these are but wild and whirling words ,  my lord . 
I am sorry they offend you ,  heartily; Yes ,  faith ,  heartily . 	I’m sorry they offend you ,  heartily ,  Yes ,  indeed ,  heartily . 
there's no offence ,  my lord . 	there's no offense ,  my lord . 
yes ,  by Saint Patrick ,  but there is ,  Horatio ,  And much offence too . 	yes ,  by Saint Patrick ,  but there is ,  Horatio ,  And much offense too . 
touching this vision here ,  It is an honest ghost ,  that let me tell you . 	regarding this vision here ,  It is an honest ghost ,  that I can tell you . 
for your desire to know what is between us O'ermaster't as you may . 	as for your desire to know what happened between us ,  Control it the best you can . 
and now ,  good friends ,  As you are friends ,  scholars ,  and soldiers ,  Give me one poor request . 	and now ,  good friends ,  As you are friends ,  scholars ,  and soldiers ,  Give me one poor request . 
what is't ,  my lord ? 	what is it ,  my lord ? 
we will . 	we will . 
never make known what you have seen to - night . 	never make known what you have seen tonight . 
my lord ,  we will not . 	my lord ,  we will not . 
nay ,  but swear't . 	no ,  but swear it . 
In faith ,  My lord ,  not I . 	really ,  My lord ,  I would not . 
nor I ,  my lord ,  in faith . 	nor I ,  my lord ,  really . 
upon my sword . 	swear on my sword . 
we have sworn ,  my lord ,  already . 	we have sworn ,  my lord ,  already . 
Indeed ,  upon my sword ,  indeed . 	Indeed ,  on my sword ,  indeed . 
swear . 	swear . 
art thou there ,  truepenny ? 	are you there ,  trusty fellow ? 
come on ! 	come on ! 
propose the oath ,  my lord . 	tell us the oath ,  my lord . 
swear . 	swear . 
hic et ubique ? 	you are everywhere ? 
then we'll shift our ground . 	then we'll move our ground . 
come hither ,  gentlemen ,  And lay your hands again upon my sword . 	come over here ,  gentlemen ,  And lay your hands again on my sword . 
never to speak of this that you have heard: Swear by my sword . 	never to speak of what you have heard ,  Swear by my sword . 
swear . 	swear . 
well said ,  old mole ! 	well said ,  old mole ! 
canst work i' the earth so fast ? 	can you work in the earth so fast ? 
a worthy pioner ! 	a worthy pioneer ! 
once more remove ,  good friends . 	once more ,  leave ,  good friends . 
o day and night ,  but this is wondrous strange ! 	o day and night ,  but this is wondrous strange ! 
and therefore as a stranger give it welcome . 	and therefore ,  as a stranger ,  welcome it . 
there are more things in heaven and earth ,  Horatio ,  Than are dreamt of in your philosophy . 	there are more things in heaven and earth ,  Horatio ,  Than are dreamt of in your philosophy . 
swear . 	swear . 
rest ,  rest ,  perturbed spirit ! 	rest ,  rest ,  irritated spirit ! 
let us go in together; And still your fingers on your lips ,  I pray . 	let’s go in together ,  And still keeping your silence ,  I beg you . 
the time is out of joint . 	the time is so out of whack . 
o cursed spite ,  That ever I was born to set it right ! 	o cursed spite ,  That ever I was born to set it right ! 
nay ,  come ,  let's go together . 	no ,  come ,  let's go together . 
give him this money and these notes ,  Reynaldo . 	give him this money and these notes ,  Reynaldo . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will ,  my lord . 
you shall do marvellous wisely ,  good Reynaldo ,  Before you visit him ,  to make inquire Of his behaviour . 	you would do very well ,  good Reynaldo ,  Before you visit him ,  to ask someone About his behavior . 
my lord ,  I did intend it . 	my lord ,  I did intend to ask . 
marry ,  well said ,  very well said . 	by Mary ,  well said ,  very well said . 
look you ,  sir ,  Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris ,  And how ,  and who ,  what means ,  and where they keep ,  What company ,  at what expense; and finding By this encompassment and drift of question That they do know my son ,  come you more nearer Than your particular demands will touch it . 	look here ,  sir ,  First ask what Danes are in Paris ,  And how ,  and who ,  what means ,  and where they live ,  What company ,  at what expense ,  and finding ,  By this talking around and drift of questions ,  That they who do know my son ,  come nearer to you Than your particular questions will touch it . 
take you ,  as 'twere ,  some distant knowledge of him ,  As thus ,  ‘I know his father and his friends ,  And in part him . ’ Do you mark this ,  Reynaldo ? 	assume ,  as it were ,  that you have only heard about him ,  Such as ,   “ I know his father and his friends ,  And in part him ”  ,  are you listening to me ,  Reynaldo ? 
ay ,  very well ,  my lord . 	yes ,  very well ,  my lord . 
and in part him ,  but , ’ you may say ,  ‘not well . 	and in part him ,  but ,  ”  you may say ,   “ not very well . 
as gaming ,  my lord ? 	as gaming ,  my lord . 
ay ,  or drinking ,  fencing ,  swearing ,  quarrelling ,  Drabbing . 	yes ,  or drinking ,  fencing ,  swearing ,  quarrelling ,  Prostitution . 
you may go so far . 	you may go that far . 
my lord ,  that would dishonour him . 	my lord ,  that would dishonor him . 
faith ,  no; as you may season it in the charge . 	just as you mention it in the charge . 
you must not put another scandal on him ,  That he is open to incontinency . 	you must not put another scandal on him ,  That he is open to inconstancy . 
that's not my meaning; but breathe his faults so quaintly That they may seem the taints of liberty ,  The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind ,  A savageness in unreclaimed blood ,  Of general assault . 	just tell his faults so quaintly That they may seem to be the stains of freedom ,  The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind ,  A savageness in wild blood ,  An attack that everyone goes through . 
but ,  my good lord— Wherefore should you do this ? 	but ,  my good lord ,  Why should you do this ? 
ay ,  my lord ,  I would know that . 	yes ,  my lord ,  I want to know that . 
marry ,  sir ,  here's my drift ,  And I believe it is a fetch of warrant . 	by Mary ,  sir ,  here's my intention: ,  And I believe it is a trick of protection . 
and then ,  sir ,  does he this—he does—what was I about to say ? 	and then ,  sir ,  ask if he does this ,  does he -  - What was I about to say ? 
so ,  by my former lecture and advice ,  Shall you my son . 	so ,  using my lecture and advice from before ,  You shall check on my son . 
you have me ,  have you not ? 	you understand me ,  yes ? 
my lord ,  I have . 	my lord ,  I do . 
good my lord ! 	my good lord ! 
observe his inclination in yourself . 	observe his inclinations in yourself . 
I shall ,  my lord . 	I shall ,  my lord . 
and let him play his music . 	and let him practice his music . 
well ,  my lord . 	well ,  my lord . 
farewell ! 	goodbye ! 
o ,  my lord ,  my lord ,  I have been so affrighted ! 	alas ,  my lord ,  I have been so frightened ! 
with what ,  i' the name of God ? 	by what ,  in the name of God ? 
my lord ,  as I was sewing in my closet ,  Lord Hamlet ,  with his doublet all unbraced ,  No hat upon his head ,  his stockings fouled ,  Ungartered ,  and down - gyved to his ankle; Pale as his shirt ,  his knees knocking each other ,  And with a look so piteous in purport As if he had been loosed out of hell To speak of horrors ,  he comes before me . 	my lord ,  as I was sewing in my chamber ,  Lord Hamlet ,  with his shirt all unbuttoned ,  No hat upon his head ,  his stockings dirty ,  Not pulled up ,  and fallen down around his ankles ,  Pale as his shirt ,  his knees knocking together ,  And with a look so pitiful in its meaning As if he had been freed out of hell To speak of horrors ,  he comes before me . 
mad for thy love ? 	crazy for your love ? 
my lord ,  I do not know ,  But truly I do fear it . 	my lord ,  I don’t know ,  But I truly fear it . 
what said he ? 	what did he say ? 
he took me by the wrist and held me hard; Then goes he to the length of all his arm ,  And ,  with his other hand thus o'er his brow ,  He falls to such perusal of my face As he would draw it . 	he took me by the wrist ,  and held me hard ,  Then he went to the length of his whole arm ,  And with his other hand like this over his brow ,  He started such study of my face As though he wanted to draw it . 
come ,  go with me . 	come ,  go with me . 
I will go seek the King . 	I will look for the king . 
this is the very ecstasy of love ,  Whose violent property fordoes itself And leads the will to desperate undertakings As oft as any passion under heaven That does afflict our natures . 	this is the very passion of love Whose violent property kills itself ,  And leads the will to desperate undertakings As often as any passion under heaven That afflicts our natures . 
no ,  my good lord; but ,  as you did command ,  I did repel his letters and denied His access to me . 	no ,  my good lord ,  but ,  as you did command ,  I did reject his letters and denied His access to me . 
that hath made him mad . 	that has made him crazy . 
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment I had not quoted him . 	I am sorry that I didn’t treat him with better heed and Judgment . 
I fear'd he did but trifle And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy ! 	I was afraid he was only trifling with you And meant to wreck you ,  but curse my jealousy ! 
by heaven ,  it is as proper to our age To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions As it is common for the younger sort To lack discretion . 	It seems it is as proper for our age To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions As it is common for the younger sort To lack discretion . 
come ,  go we to the King . 	come ,  let’s go to the king . 
this must be known; which ,  being kept close ,  might move More grief to hide than hate to utter love . 	this must be known ,  which ,  if kept secret ,  might mean More trouble to hide it than hate for utter love . 
welcome ,  dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern . 	welcome ,  dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern ! 
moreover that we much did long to see you ,  The need we have to use you did provoke Our hasty sending . 	In addition to the fact that we have wanted to see you for A long time ,  the reason we need to see you made us Send our hasty invitation . 
what it should be ,  More than his father's death ,  that thus hath put him So much from the understanding of himself ,  I cannot dream of . 	what the problem should be ,  More than his father's death that has put him So much from the understanding of himself ,  I cannot dream of . 
I entreat you both That ,  being of so young days brought up with him ,  And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour ,  That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court Some little time; so by your companies To draw him on to pleasures ,  and to gather So much as from occasion you may glean ,  Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus That open'd lies within our remedy . 	I beg you both That ,  being childhood friends and brought up with him ,  And since you know well his youth and disposition ,  That you will be pleased to rest here in our court For a while ,  so that ,  with your company ,  you Draw him on to enjoy himself ,  and to gather ,  So much as from any occasion you may glean ,  Whether anything ,  unknown to us ,  afflicts him like this ,  That ,  once we know ,  we can make better . 
good gentlemen ,  he hath much talk'd of you ,  And sure I am two men there are not living To whom he more adheres . 	good gentlemen ,  he has much talked of you ,  And I am sure that there are not living two men With whom he feels close . 
If it will please you To show us so much gentry and good will As to expend your time with us awhile For the supply and profit of our hope ,  Your visitation shall receive such thanks As fits a king's remembrance . 	If you will please Show us so much gentry and goodwill As to spend your time with us a while ,  To help us find out what is troubling him ,  Your visit shall receive such thanks As only a King can give . 
both your Majesties Might ,  by the sovereign power you have of us ,  Put your dread pleasures more into command Than to entreaty . 	both your majesties Might ,  by the sovereign power you have of us ,  Put your huge request more into a command Than to an entreaty . 
but we both obey ,  And here give up ourselves ,  in the full bent ,  To lay our service freely at your feet ,  To be commanded . 	we both obey ,  And here we give up ourselves ,  without reservation ,  To lay our service freely at your feet ,  To be commanded . 
thanks ,  Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern . 	thanks ,  Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern . 
thanks ,  Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz . 	thanks ,  Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz . 
and I beseech you instantly to visit My too much changed son . 	and I beg you instantly to visit My too much changed son . 
go ,  some of you ,  And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is . 	go ,  some of you ,  And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is . 
heavens make our presence and our practices Pleasant and helpful to him ! 	may the heavens make our presence and our practices Pleasant and helpful to him ! 
ay ,  amen ! 	yes ,  amen ! 
the ambassadors from Norway ,  my good lord ,  Are joyfully return'd . 	the ambassadors from Norway ,  my good lord ,  Are joyfully returned . 
thou still hast been the father of good news . 	you have always been the father of good news . 
have I ,  my lord ? 	have I ,  my lord ? 
assure you ,  my good liege ,  I hold my duty as I hold my soul ,  Both to my God and to my gracious King . 	I assure you ,  my good lord ,  I believe my duty is ,  as I believe in my soul ,  Both to my God and to my gracious king . 
and I do think ,  or else this brain of mine Hunts not the trail of policy so sure As it hath used to do ,  that I have found The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy . 	and I do think— or else this brain of mine Doesn’t know the trail of policy as surely As it used to do— ,  that I have found The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy . 
thyself do grace to them ,  and bring them in . 	Introduce yourself to them ,  and bring them in . 
he tells me ,  my dear Gertrude ,  he hath found The head and source of all your son's distemper . 	he tells me ,  my sweet queen ,  he has found The head and source of all your son's unhappiness . 
I doubt it is no other but the main ,  His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage . 	I doubt it is none other than the main reason ,  His father's death and our overly hasty marriage . 
well ,  we shall sift him . 	well ,  we shall figure him out . 
welcome ,  my good friends . 	welcome ,  my good friends ! 
say ,  Voltimand ,  what from our brother Norway ? 	say ,  Voltimand ,  what news from our ally ,  Norway ? 
It likes us well; And at our more consider'd time we'll read ,  Answer ,  and think upon this business . 	we really like this news ,  And later when we have more time we'll read this Request ,  answer ,  and think upon this business . 
meantime we thank you for your well - took labour . 	In the meantime ,  we thank you for a job well done . 
go to your rest; at night we'll feast together . 	get some rest ,  tonight we'll feast together . 
most welcome home ! 	a great welcome home ! 
this business is well ended . 	this business is well ended . 
mad call I it; for ,  to define true madness ,  What is't but to be nothing else but mad ? 	crazy ”  I call it ,  because to define true craziness ,  What is it except to be nothing else but crazy ? 
but let that go . 	but ignore that . 
madam ,  I swear I use no art at all . 	madam ,  I swear I use no clever words at all . 
thus it remains ,  and the remainder thus . 	It remains like this ,  and the remainder like this . 
perpend . 	consider . 
I have a daughter—have while she is mine— Who in her duty and obedience ,  mark ,  Hath given me this . 	I have a daughter ,  have while she is mine ,  Who ,  in her duty and obedience ,  listen ,  Has given me this . 
now gather ,  and surmise . 	now listen and understand . 
doubt thou the stars are fire; Doubt that the sun doth move; Doubt truth to be a liar; But never doubt I love . 	you may doubt you that the stars are fire ,   ” You may doubt that the sun does move ,   ” You may doubt truth to be a liar ,   ” But never doubt I love . 
o dear Ophelia ,  I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to reckon my groans . 	o dear Ophelia ,  I am sick at the number of my sighs ,  I don’t have the skill to calculate my groans . 
but that I love thee best ,  O most best ,  believe it . 	but that I love you best ,  O most best ,  believe it . 
adieu . 	adieu . 
thine evermore ,  most dear lady ,  whilst this machine is to him ,  Hamlet . 	yours evermore ,  most dear lady ,  while this brain is in him ,  HAMLET . 
this ,  in obedience ,  hath my daughter shown me; And more above ,  hath his solicitings ,  As they fell out by time ,  by means ,  and place ,  All given to mine ear . 	this my daughter has shown this to me in obedience ,  And furthermore ,  has his gifts ,  Which she has described to me by the time ,  by means ,  and place they were received . 
but how hath she Receiv'd his love ? 	but how has she Received his love ? 
what do you think of me ? 	what do you think of me ? 
as of a man faithful and honourable . 	as of a man faithful and honorable . 
I would fain prove so . 	I would gladly prove so . 
do you think 'tis this ? 	do you think it is this ? 
It may be ,  very like . 	It may be ,  very likely . 
hath there been such a time—I would fain know that— That I have positively said ‘'tis so , ’ When it proved otherwise ? 	has there been such a time ,  I’d gladly know that ,  That I have positively said  “ it is so ,  ”  And it wasn’t ? 
not that I know . 	not that I know of . 
take this from this ,  if this be otherwise . 	take this from this ,  if this isn’t the case now . 
If circumstances lead me ,  I will find Where truth is hid ,  though it were hid indeed Within the centre . 	If get the opportunity ,  I will find Where truth is hidden ,  though it were hidden indeed Within the centre of the man . 
how may we try it further ? 	how can we find out more ? 
you know ,  sometimes he walks four hours together Here in the lobby . 	you know sometimes he walks for hours and hours Here in the lobby . 
so he does indeed . 	so he does indeed . 
at such a time I'll loose my daughter to him . 	at such a time ,  I’ll make sure my daughter meets him . 
be you and I behind an arras then; Mark the encounter . 	you and I will be behind a curtain then ,  Listening to their encounter . 
If he love her not ,  And he not from his reason fall'n thereon Let me be no assistant for a state ,  But keep a farm and carters . 	If he doesn’t love her ,  And he’s not gone crazy because of love ,  Let me be no assistant for a state ,  But be a farmer and horse carter . 
we will try it . 	we will try it . 
but look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading . 	but look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading . 
o ,  give me leave . 	o ,  give me permission . 
how does my good Lord Hamlet ? 	how does my good Lord Hamlet ? 
well ,  God - a - mercy . 	well ,  God have mercy . 
do you know me ,  my lord ? 	do you know me ,  my lord ? 
not I ,  my lord . 	not I ,  my lord . 
then I would you were so honest a man . 	then I wish you were so honest a man . 
honest ,  my lord ? 	honest ,  my lord ! 
that's very true ,  my lord . 	that's very true ,  my lord . 
for if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog ,  being a good kissing carrion—Have you a daughter ? 	for if the sun breeds maggots in a dead dog ,  being a god - kissing rotten flesh— Have you a daughter ? 
I have ,  my lord . 	I have ,  my lord . 
let her not walk i' th' sun . 	let her not walk in the sun . 
conception is a blessing ,  but not as your daughter may conceive . 	pregnancy is a blessing ,  but not as your daughter may get pregnant . 
friend ,  look to't . 	friend ,  look to it . 
how say you by that ? 	how say you by that ? 
still harping on my daughter . 	still harping on my daughter . 
he is far gone . 	he is far gone ,  far gone ! 
and truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for love ,  very near this . 	In my youth I truly suffered much agony for love almost like this . 
words ,  words ,  words . 	words ,  words ,  words . 
what is the matter ,  my lord ? 	what is the matter ,  my lord ? 
between who ? 	between who ? 
I mean ,  the matter that you read ,  my lord . 	I mean ,  the matter that you are reading ,  my lord . 
all which ,  sir ,  though I most powerfully and potently believe ,  yet I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself ,  sir ,  shall grow old as I am if ,  if like a crab ,  you could go backward . 	all of which ,  sir ,  although I believe it most powerfully and potently ,  yet I think it was dishonest to have written it like this ,  because you yourself ,  sir ,  should be old as I am ,  if ,  like a crab ,  you could go backward . 
Into my grave ? 	Into my grave ? 
Indeed ,  that is out of the air . 	Indeed ,  that is out of the air . 
aside . 	aside . 
how sometimes his replies are ! 	how full of meaning his replies sometimes are ! 
a happiness that often madness hits on ,  which reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of . 	a happiness that often craziness hits on ,  which reason and sanity couldn’t arranged so happily . 
you cannot ,  sir ,  take from me anything that I will more willingly part withal—except my life ,  except my life ,  except my life . 	you cannot ,  sir ,  take from me anything that I will more willingly part with ,  except my life ,  except my life ,  except my life . 
fare you well ,  my lord . 	goodbye ,  my lord . 
these tedious old fools ! 	these tedious old fools ! 
god save you ,  sir ! 	god save you ,  sir ! 
my honoured lord ! 	my honored lord ! 
my most dear lord ! 	my most dear lord ! 
my excellent good friends ! 	my excellent good friends ! 
how dost thou ,  Guildenstern ? 	how are you ,  Guildenstern ? 
ah ,  Rosencrantz ! 	ah ,  Rosencrantz ! 
good lads ,  how do ye both ? 	good lads ,  how do you both ? 
as the indifferent children of the earth . 	as the indifferent children of the earth . 
nor the soles of her shoe ? 	nor the soles of her shoe ? 
neither ,  my lord . 	neither ,  my lord . 
then you live about her waist ,  or in the middle of her favours ? 	then you live about her waist ,  or in the middle of her favors ? 
faith ,  her privates we . 	god ,  we are her privates . 
In the secret parts of Fortune ? 	In the secret parts of fortune ? 
what news ? 	what's the news ? 
none ,  my lord ,  but that the world's grown honest . 	none ,  my lord ,  but that the world's grown honest . 
prison ,  my lord ? 	prison ,  my lord ! 
denmark's a prison . 	denmark's a prison . 
then is the world one . 	then the world is one . 
a goodly one; in which there are many confines ,  wards ,  and dungeons ,  Denmark being one o' the worst . 	a goodly one ,  in which there are many cells ,  wards ,  and dungeons ,  Denmark being one of the worst . 
we think not so ,  my lord . 	we don’t think so ,  my lord . 
why ,  then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so . 	why ,  then it is not a prison to you ,  for there is nothing either good or bad but only thinking makes it so . 
to me it is a prison . 	to me ,  it is a prison . 
o God ,  I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space ,  were it not that I have bad dreams . 	o God ,  I could be put into a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space ,  if it were not that I have bad dreams . 
which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream . 	those dreams are indeed ambition ,  for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream . 
a dream itself is but a shadow . 	a dream itself is but a shadow . 
truly ,  and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow . 	truly ,  and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow . 
then are our beggars bodies ,  and our monarchs and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows . 	then our beggars are bodies ,  and our monarchs and outstretched heroes are the beggars' shadows . 
shall we to the court ? 	shall we to the court ? 
for ,  by my fay ,  I cannot reason . 	for ,  by my faith ,  I cannot reason . 
we'll wait upon you . 	we'll wait upon you . 
no such matter ! 	that’s not necessary . 
I will not sort you with the rest of my servants; for ,  to speak to you like an honest man ,  I am most dreadfully attended . 	I won’t sort you with the rest of my servants ,  because ,  to speak to you like an honest man ,  I am most dreadfully attended . 
but in the beaten way of friend -  ship ,  what make you at Elsinore ? 	but ,  in the beaten way of friendship ,  what are you doing at Elsinore ? 
to visit you ,  my lord; no other occasion . 	to visit you ,  my lord ,  no other occasion . 
beggar that I am ,  I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you; And sure ,  dear friends ,  my thanks are too dear a halfpenny . 	beggar that I am ,  I am even poor in thanks ,  but I thank you ,  and sure ,  dear friends ,  my thanks are a halfpenny too expensive . 
were you not sent for ? 	weren’t you sent for ? 
Is it your own inclin -  ing ? 	Is it your own desire to come here ? 
Is it a free visitation ? 	Is it a free visit ? 
come ,  deal justly with me . 	come on ,  Tell me the truth . 
what should we say ,  my lord ? 	what should we say ,  my lord ? 
why ,  anything ,  but to the purpose . 	why ,  anything but to the answer . 
you were sent for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks ,  which your modesties have not craft enough to colour . 	you were sent for ,  and there is a kind of confession in your looks ,  which you are not very good at hiding . 
I know the good King and Queen have sent for you . 	I know the good king and queen have sent for you . 
to what end ,  my lord ? 	what for ,  my lord ? 
that you must teach me . 	you have to tell me . 
but let me conjure you by the rights of our fellowship ,  by the consonancy of our youth ,  by the obligation of our ever - preserved love ,  and by what more dear a better proposer could charge you withal ,  be even and direct with me ,  whether you were sent for or no . 	but let me beg you ,  by the rights of our fellowship ,  by the harmony of our youth ,  by the obligation of our ever preserved love ,  and by anything else that could charge you to be even and direct with me ,  were you were sent for or not ? 
what say you ? 	what do you say ? 
my lord ,  we were sent for . 	my lord ,  we were sent for . 
I have of late—but wherefore I know not— lost all my mirth ,  forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed ,  it goes so heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame ,  the earth ,  seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy ,  the air ,  look you ,  this brave o'erhanging firmament ,  this majestical roof fretted with golden fire ,  why ,  it appears no other thing to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours . 	I have of late ,  but why I don’t know ,  lost all my joy ,  given up all habits of exercises ,  and indeed ,  I am so depressed that this good frame ,  the earth ,  seems to me to be a sterile outpost ,  this most excellent canopy ,  the air— look— ,  this brave sky hanging over us ,  this majestic roof divided with golden fire ,  why ,  it seems to me to be nothing but a dirty and disgusting meeting of vapors . 
what a piece of work is a man ! 	what a piece of work is man ! 
how noble in reason ! 	how noble in reason ! 
how infinite in faculty ! 	how infinite in faculties ! 
in form and moving how express and admirable ! 	in form and moving ,  how expressive and admirable ! 
in action how like an angel ! 	In action how like an angel ! 
in apprehension how like a god ! 	in understanding ,  how like a god ! 
and yet to me what is this quintessence of dust ? 	and yet ,  to me ,  what is this highly refined speck of dust ? 
man delights not me—no ,  nor woman nei -  ther ,  though by your smiling you seem to say so . 	man doesn’t delight me ,  no ,  nor woman either ,  though by your smiling ,  you seem to find that funny . 
my lord ,  there was no such stuff in my thoughts . 	my lord ,  there wasn’t any such stuff in my thoughts . 
why did you laugh then ,  when I said man delights not me ? 	why did you laugh then ,  when I said ,   “ Man doesn’t delight me ”  ? 
to think ,  my lord ,  if you delight not in man ,  what lenten entertainment the players shall receive from you . 	to think ,  my lord ,  if you do not delight in man ,  what a somber reception the players shall receive from you . 
we coted them on the way ,  and hither are they com -  ing to offer you service . 	we passed them on the way ,  and they are coming here to perform . 
what players are they ? 	what players are they ? 
even those you were wont to take such delight in ,  the tragedians of the city . 	even those you usually enjoy ,  the tragedians of the city . 
how chances it they travel ? 	how is it that they travel ? 
their residence ,  both in reputation and profit ,  was better both ways . 	being in the city was better for them in regards to their reputation and their profits . 
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation . 	I think their traveling to perform a play is a new innovation . 
do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the city ? 	do they hold the same respect they did when I was in the city ? 
are they so followed ? 	are they still followed ? 
no ,  indeed ,  are they not . 	no ,  indeed ,  they are not . 
how comes it ? 	why ? 
do they grow rusty ? 	do they grow rusty ? 
nay ,  their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is ,  sir ,  an eyrie of children ,  little eyases ,  that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapped for't . 	no ,  their work keeps them at their usual pace ,  but there is ,  sir ,  a brood of children ,  untrained ,  that complicate their situation ,  and are most tyrannically beaten for it . 
these are now the fashion ,  and so berattle the common stages—so they call them—that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose - quills and dare scarce come thither . 	children are now very popular ,  and are on the common stages ,  as they call them ,  so much that many actors are afraid they cannot compete and barely dare to come there . 
what ,  are they children ? 	what ,  are they children ? 
who maintains 'em ? 	who cares for them ? 
how are they escoted ? 	where do they live ? 
will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing ? 	will they stop pursuing the stage when they can no longer sing ? 
will they not say afterwards ,  if they should grow themselves to common players—as it is most like ,  if their means are no better—their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession ? 	won’t they say later ,  if they should go on to become common players ,  which is likely ,  and their lives are no better ,  that their writers did them wrong to make them exclaim against their own success ? 
faith ,  there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to controver -  sy . 	well ,  there has been a lot of comment on both sides ,  and the nation holds it no sin to provoke them to controversy . 
there was ,  for a while ,  no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question . 	there was ,  for a while ,  no money paid for debate unless the poet and the player fought over the question . 
Is't possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
o ,  there has been much throwing about of brains . 	o ,  there has been a lot of bashing of brains going on . 
do the boys carry it away ? 	do the boys carry them away ? 
ay ,  that they do ,  my lord ,  Hercules and his load too . 	yes ,  they do ,  my lord ,  Hercules and his load too . 
It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark ,  and those that would make mows at him while my father lived give twenty ,  forty ,  fifty ,  a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little . 	It is not very strange ,  for my uncle is king of Denmark ,  and those that would make faces at him while my father lived ,  paid twenty ,  forty ,  fifty ,  a hundred ducats each for a little picture of him . 
sblood ,  there is something in this more than natural ,  if philosophy could find it out . 	god’s blood !  ,  there is something more than natural in this ,  if philosophy could figure it out . 
there are the players . 	there are the players . 
gentlemen ,  you are welcome to Elsinore . 	gentlemen ,  you are welcome to Elsinore . 
your hands ,  come ! 	let me shake your hands . 
then appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony . 	the accessory of a welcome is fashion and ceremony . 
let me comply with you in this garb ,  lest my extent to the players—which ,  I tell you ,  must show fairly outwards—should more appear like entertainment than yours . 	let me comply with it in these clothes ,  for fear that my welcome to the players ,  which I tell you must look good ,  should more appear like entertainment than your plays . 
you are welcome . 	you are welcome . 
but my uncle - father and aunt -  mother are deceived . 	but my uncle - father and aunt -  mother are deceived . 
In what ,  my dear lord ? 	In what ,  my dear lord ? 
I am but mad north - north - west . 	I am but crazy north - north - west . 
when the wind is southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw . 	when the wind is from the south ,  I know a hawk from a handsaw . 
well be with you ,  gentlemen ! 	welcome ,  gentlemen ! 
hark you ,  Guildenstern ,  and you too—at each ear a hearer ! 	listen ,  Guildenstern ,  and you too ,  with each ear . 
that great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling clouts . 	that great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling clothes . 
happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old man is twice a child . 	happily this is the second time he uses them ,  for they say an old man is twice a child . 
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players . 	I predict he comes to tell me of the players ,  listen . 
mark it . 	you say right ,  sir . 
you say right ,  sir; o' Monday morning; 'twas so indeed . 	on Monday morning ,  it was true indeed . 
buzz ,  buzz ! 	buzz ,  buzz ! 
seneca cannot be too heavy ,  nor Plautus too light . 	seneca cannot be too heavy nor Plautus too light . 
for the law of writ and the liberty ,  these are the only men . 	for the law of writ and the liberty ,  these are the only men . 
o Jephthah ,  judge of Israel ,  what a treasure hadst thou ! 	o Jephthah ,  judge of Israel ,  what a treasure you had ! 
what treasure had he ,  my lord ? 	what treasure did he have ,  my lord ? 
why ,  ‘One fair daughter ,  and no more ,  The which he loved passing well . ’ Still on my daughter . 	why ,  “ One fair daughter ,  and no more ,  The which he loved passing well .  ”  Still harping on my daughter . 
am I not i' the right ,  old Jephthah ? 	am I not in the right ,  old Jephthah ? 
If you call me Jephthah ,  my lord ,  I have a daughter that I love passing well . 	If you call me Jephthah ,  my lord ,  I have a daughter that I love passing well . 
nay ,  that follows not . 	no ,  that doesn’t follow . 
what follows then ,  my lord ? 	what follows ,  then ,  my lord ? 
why ,  As by lot ,  God wot ,  and then ,  you know ,  It came to pass ,  as most like it was . — The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look where my abridgment comes . 	why ,   “ As by lot ,  God knows ,  ”  and then ,  you know ,  ” It came to pass ,  as most like it was .  ”  The first line of the holy song will show you more ,  for look where my means of whiling away the time comes . 
you are welcome ,  masters; welcome ,  all . 	you are welcome ,  masters ,  welcome ,  all . 
I am glad to see thee well . 	I am glad to see you well . 
welcome ,  good friends . 	welcome ,  good friends . 
what ,  my young lady and mistress ? 	what ,  my young lady and mistress ! 
by'r lady ,  your ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the altitude of a chopine . 	by our lady ,  your ladyship is taller than when I saw you last ,  by the height of a high - heeled shoe . 
pray God ,  your voice ,  like a piece of uncurrent gold ,  be not cracked within the ring . 	pray God ,  your voice ,  like a an unused gold coin ,  can’t be cracked within the ring . 
masters ,  you are all welcome . 	masters ,  you are all welcome . 
we'll e'en to't like French falconers ,  fly at any thing we see . 	we'll act up like French falconers: fly at anything we see . 
we'll have a speech straight . 	we'll have a speech right now . 
come ,  give us a taste of your quality . 	come ,  give us a bit of your quality . 
come ,  a passionate speech . 	come ,  a passionate speech . 
what speech ,  my good lord ? 	what speech ,  my lord ? 
I heard thee speak me a speech once ,  but it was never acted; or if it was ,  not above once; for the play ,  I remember ,  pleased not the million ,  'twas caviary to the general; but it was—as I received it ,  and others ,  whose judgments in such matters cried in the top of mine—an excellent play ,  well digested in the scenes ,  set down with as much mod -  esty as cunning . 	I heard you do a speech once ,  but it was never acted ,  or if it was ,  not more than once ,  for the play ,  I remember ,  didn’t please the crowd ,  it was caviar to the particular ,  but it was ,  as I took it ,  and others ,  whose judgments in such matters far exceed mine ,  an excellent play ,  well organized in the scenes ,  set down with as much modesty as skill . 
I remember one said there were no sal -  lets in the lines to make the matter savoury ,  nor no mat -  ter in the phrase that might indict the author of affecta -  tion; but called it an honest method ,  as wholesome as sweet ,  and by very much more handsome than fine . 	I remember ,  one said there were no mixes in the lines to make the matter spicy ,  and no matter in the phrase that might accuse the author of putting on airs ,  but called it an honest effort ,  as wholesome as it was sweet ,  and ,  by very much ,  more handsome than fine . 
head to foot Now is he total gules ,  horridly trick'd With blood of fathers ,  mothers ,  daughters ,  sons . 	If you can remember it ,  begin at this line ,  let me see ,  let me see . 
fore God ,  my lord ,  well spoken ,  with good accent and good discretion . 	by God ,  my lord ,  well spoken ,  with good accent and good judgment . 
anon he finds him ,  Striking too short at Greeks . 	eventually he finds him ,  Striking too short at the Greeks . 
his antique sword ,  Rebellious to his arm ,  lies where it falls ,  Repugnant to command . 	his old sword ,  Rebelling against his arm ,  lies where it falls ,  Resisting his commands . 
unequal match'd ,  Pyrrhus at Priam drives ,  in rage strikes wide; But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword The unnerved father falls . 	not matched equally ,  Pyrrhus lunges at Priam ,  strikes wild in rage ,  But ,  with the whiff and wind of his fierce sword ,  The shaken father falls . 
then senseless Ilium ,  Seeming to feel this blow ,  with flaming top Stoops to his base ,  and with a hideous crash Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear . 	then senseless Priam ,  Seeming to feel this blow ,  flaming at his top Stoops to his base ,  and ,  with a hideous crash ,  Cuts off prisoner Pyrrhus' ear . 
for lo ! 	behold ! 
his sword ,  Which was declining on the milky head Of reverend Priam ,  seem'd i' the air to stick . 	his sword ,  Which was declining on the milky head Of reverend Priam ,  seemed in the air to stick . 
so ,  as a painted tyrant ,  Pyrrhus stood ,  And like a neutral to his will and matter ,  Did nothing . 	so ,  like a painted tyrant ,  Pyrrhus stood ,  And ,  as if not giving in to his will and body ,  Did nothing . 
but as we often see ,  against some storm ,  A silence in the heavens ,  the rack stand still ,  The bold winds speechless ,  and the orb below As hush as death—anon the dreadful thunder Doth rend the region; so ,  after Pyrrhus' pause ,  Aroused vengeance sets him new a - work; And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall On Mars's armour ,  forged for proof eterne ,  With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword Now falls on Priam . 	but ,  as we often see a silence in the heavens ,  After some storm ,  the gales stand still ,  The bold winds speechless ,  and the earth below As hushed as death ,  and eventually the dreadful thunder Tears the region ,  so ,  after Pyrrhus' pause ,  A roused anger renews him and he begins to work ,  And never did the One - eyed monster’s hammers fall On the god of war’s amour ,  forged for eternal strength ,  With less sorrow than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword Now falls on Priam . 
out ,  out ,  thou strumpet ,  Fortune ! 	out ,  out ,  you loose woman ,  Fortune ! 
all you gods ,  In general synod take away her power; Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel ,  And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven ,  As low as to the fiends ! 	all you gods ,  In general meeting ,  take away her power ,  Break all the spokes and curved rims from her wheel ,  And bowl the hub of the wheel down the hill of heaven ,  As low as you can to kill the fiends ! 
this is too long . 	this is too long . 
It shall to the barber's ,  with your beard . 	It shall go to the barber's ,  to be cut with your beard . 
prithee say on . 	I beg you ,  continue . 
he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry ,  or he sleeps . 	he's for a jig or a dirty tale ,  or he sleeps . 
say on; come to Hecuba . 	continue ,  come to Hecuba . 
mobled queen’ is good . 	wrapped up queen ”  is good . 
run barefoot up and down ,  threatening the flames With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head Where late the diadem stood ,  and for a robe ,  About her lank and all o'erteemed loins ,  A blanket ,  in the alarm of fear caught up— Who this had seen ,  with tongue in venom steep'd 'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounced . 	run barefoot up and down ,  threatening the flames With blind tears ,  a cloth on that head Where lately the crown had stood ,  and for a robe ,  About her thin loins ,  exhausted from child - bearing ,  A blanket ,  caught up in the panic of fear ,  Whoever had seen this ,  with a very poisoned tongue ,  Would have pronounced treason against Fortune's state . 
but if the gods themselves did see her then ,  When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs ,  The instant burst of clamour that she made Unless things mortal move them not at all Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven And passion in the gods . 	but if the gods themselves saw her then ,  When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport By chopping her husband’s limbs with his sword ,  The instant burst of noise that she made ,  Unless mortal events can’t move them at all ,  Would have made the burning eyes of heaven milk ,  And rouse passion in the gods . 
look ,  whether he has not turned his colour ,  and has tears in's eyes . 	look ,  where he has turned pale ,  and has tears in his eyes . 
prithee no more ! 	I beg you ,  no more ! 
tis well . 	It is well . 
I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon . 	I’ll have you speak out the rest of this soon . 
good my lord ,  will you see the players well bestow'd ? 	my good lord ,  will you see the players well taken care of ? 
do you hear ? 	do you hear me ? 
let them be well used; for they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the time . 	let them be well used ,  for they are the short stories and brief history of the time . 
after your death you were better have a bad epitaph than their ill report while you live . 	after you die ,  it would be better to have a bad epitaph then than their ill report while you live now . 
my lord ,  I will use them according to their desert . 	my lord ,  I will use them according to their class . 
god's bodykins ,  man ,  much better ! 	god’s bodkin ,  man ,  better . 
use every man after his desert ,  and who shall 'scape whipping ? 	use every man according to his class ,  and who should escape whipping ? 
use them after your own honour and dignity . 	use them according to your class . 
the less they deserve ,  the more merit is in your bounty . 	the less they deserve it ,  the more credit it is to you . 
take them in . 	take them in . 
come ,  sirs . 	come ,  sirs . 
follow him ,  friends . 	follow him ,  friends . 
we'll hear a play to - morrow . 	we'll hear a play tomorrow . 
dost thou hear me ,  old friend ? 	do you hear me ,  old friend ? 
we'll ha't tomorrow night . 	we'll have it tomorrow night . 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
very well . 	very well . 
follow that lord ,  and look you mock him not . 	follow that lord ,  and see you don’t mock him . 
my good friends ,  I'll leave you till night . 	I’ll leave you till night . 
you are wel -  come to Elsinore . 	you are welcome to Elsinore . 
good my lord ! 	my good lord ! 
ay ,  so ,  God be wi' ye ! 	yes ,  so ,  God be with you ! 
now I am alone . 	now I am alone . 
o ,  what a rogue and peasant slave am I ! 	o ,  what a idle ,  wandering ,  and peasant slave I am ! 
Is it not monstrous that this player here ,  But in a fiction ,  in a dream of passion ,  Could force his soul so to his own conceit That from her working all his visage wann'd ,  Tears in his eyes ,  distraction in's aspect ,  A broken voice ,  and his whole function suiting With forms to his conceit ? 	Isn’t it monstrous that this actor here ,  Only in a play ,  in a dream of passion ,  Could force his soul so to his own actions That his grew pale from the words of the speech ,  Tears in his eyes ,  separation from reality in his face ,  A broken voice ,  and his whole function matching Forms to his role ? 
and all for nothing ! 	and all for nothing ! 
for Hecuba ! 	for Hecuba ? 
what's Hecuba to him ,  or he to Hecuba ,  That he should weep for her ? 	what's Hecuba to him ,  or he to Hecuba ,  That he should weep for her ? 
what would he do ,  Had he the motive and the cue for passion That I have ? 	what would he do If he had the motive and the cue for passion That I have ? 
he would drown the stage with tears And cleave the general ear with horrid speech; Make mad the guilty and appal the free ,  Confound the ignorant ,  and amaze indeed The very faculties of eyes and ears . 	he would drown the stage with tears And split the audience’s with horrid speech ,  Make the guilty crazy ,  and shock the innocent ,  Confuse the ignorant ,  and amaze ,  indeed ,  The very faculties of eyes and ears . 
am I a coward ? 	am I a coward ? 
who calls me villain ? 	who calls me villain ? 
breaks my pate across ? 	breaks my head across ? 
plucks off my beard and blows it in my face ? 	plucks off my beard and blows it in my face ? 
tweaks me by the nose ? 	tweaks me by the nose ? 
gives me the lie i' the throat ,  As deep as to the lungs ? 	lies about me in the throat As deep as the lungs ? 
bloody ,  bawdy villain ! 	bloody ,  bawdy villain ! 
remorseless ,  treacherous ,  lecherous ,  kindless villain ! 	remorseless ,  treacherous ,  lecherous ,  kindless villain ! 
o ,  vengeance ! 	o ,  vengeance ! 
why ,  what an ass am I ! 	why ,  what an ass I am ! 
this is most brave ,  That I ,  the son of a dear father murder'd ,  Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell ,  Must ,  like a whore ,  unpack my heart with words And fall a - cursing like a very drab ,  A scullion ! 	this is most brave ,  That I ,  the son of a dear father murdered ,  Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell ,  Must ,  like a whore ,  release the content of my heart with words ,  and fall down cursing like a very drab ,  Menial servant in the kitchen ! 
fie upon't ! 	shame on it ! 
foh ! 	argh ! 
about ,  my brain ! 	change course ,  my brain ! 
hum ,  I have heard That guilty creatures ,  sitting at a play ,  Have by the very cunning of the scene Been struck so to the soul that presently They have proclaim'd their malefactions; For murder ,  though it have no tongue ,  will speak With most miraculous organ ,  I'll have these players Play something like the murder of my father Before mine uncle . 	I have Heard that guilty creatures ,  sitting at a play ,  Have been so struck to the soul By the very cunning of the scene that presently They have confessed their evil deeds ,  Because murder ,  although it is silent ,  will speak With its own most miraculous organ ,  I’ll have these Players play something like the murder of my father Before my uncle . 
I'll observe his looks; I'll tent him to the quick . 	I’ll observe his looks ,  I’ll watch his every move . 
If he but blench ,  I know my course . 	even if he only winks ,  I know what I have to do . 
I'll have grounds More relative than this . 	I’ll need to have more proof than this . 
the play's the thing Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King . 	the play's the thing Wherein I’ll see the conscience of the king . 
and can you by no drift of conference Get from him why he puts on this confusion ,  Grating so harshly all his days of quiet With turbulent and dangerous lunacy ? 	and can’t you ,  by any circumstance ,  Get from him why he puts on this craziness ,  Grating all his days of quiet so harshly With turbulence and dangerous lunacy ? 
he does confess he feels himself distracted ,  But from what cause he will by no means speak . 	he does confess that he feels himself troubled ,  But he will by no means speak about the cause . 
nor do we find him forward to be sounded ,  But with a crafty madness keeps aloof When we would bring him on to some confession Of his true state . 	nor do we find him easy to figure out the reason why ,  Because ,  with a crafty craziness ,  keeps his distance When we try to bring him to some confession Of his true state . 
did he receive you well ? 	did he receive you well ? 
most like a gentleman . 	most like a gentleman . 
but with much forcing of his disposition . 	but with much forcing to make himself do it . 
niggard of question ,  but of our demands Most free in his reply . 	difficult to question ,  but ,  when we ask for something ,  He is most free in his reply . 
did you assay him To any pastime ? 	did you try to get him To engage in any pastime ? 
madam ,  it so fell out that certain players We o'erraught on the way . 	madam ,  it just so happened that certain players We passed on the way here . 
of these we told him ,  And there did seem in him a kind of joy To hear of it . 	we told him about them ,  And it seemed to make him happy To hear of it . 
they are here about the court ,  And ,  as I think ,  they have already order This night to play before him . 	they are here at the court ,  And ,  I think ,  they are already hired To play before him tonight . 
tis most true; And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties To hear and see the matter . 	this is very true ,  And he begged me to invite your majesties To hear and see the play . 
with all my heart ,  and it doth much content me To hear him so inclin'd . 	with all my heart ,  and it makes me happy To hear that he is so inclined . 
good gentlemen ,  give him a further edge And drive his purpose on to these delights . 	good gentlemen ,  cut him some slack ,  And keep his attentions on these delights . 
we shall ,  my lord . 	we shall ,  my lord . 
sweet Gertrude ,  leave us too; For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither ,  That he ,  as 'twere by accident ,  may here Affront Ophelia . 	sweet Gertrude ,  leave us too ,  For we have secretly sent for Hamlet to come here ,  That here he may ,  as if by accident Meet Ophelia . 
her father and myself ,  lawful espials ,  Will so bestow ourselves that ,  seeing unseen ,  We may of their encounter frankly judge And gather by him ,  as he is behaved ,  If't be the affliction of his love or no ,  That thus he suffers for . 	her father and I ,  lawful spies ,  Will so hide ourselves that ,  seeing but unseen ,  We may honestly judge their encounter ,  And gather from him ,  or how he behaves ,  If it’s the affliction of his love or not That he suffers like this for . 
so shall I hope your virtues Will bring him to his wonted way again ,  To both your honours . 	I really hope your virtues Will bring him to his usual way again ,  To the honor of both of you . 
madam ,  I wish it may . 	madam ,  I wish it may . 
ophelia ,  walk you here . 	ophelia ,  you walk here . 
gracious ,  so please you ,  We will bestow ourselves . 	gracious king ,  if it pleases you ,  We will bestow ourselves . 
read on this book ,  That show of such an exercise may colour Your loneliness . 	read this book ,  Showing that such an exercise may colours Your loneliness . 
we are oft to blame in this— 'tis too much proved—that with devotion's visage And pious action we do sugar o'er The Devil himself . 	we are often to blame in this ,  it’s been proven often ,  that with devotion's face and holy actions ,  we sugar over The Devil himself . 
o ,  'tis too true ! 	o ,  it is too true ! 
how smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience ! 	how hurting a lash that speech gives my conscience ! 
the harlot's cheek ,  beautied with plastering art ,  Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it Than is my deed to my most painted word . 	the prostitute's cheek ,  covered with makeup ,  Isn’t more ugly to the thing that helps it Than is my deed to my very artificial words . 
o heavy burden ! 	o heavy burden ! 
I hear him coming . 	I hear him coming . 
let's withdraw ,  my lord . 	let's hide ,  my lord . 
for who would bear the whips and scorns of time ,  The oppressor's wrong ,  the proud man's contumely ,  The pangs of disprized love ,  the law's delay ,  The insolence of office ,  and the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes ,  When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin ? 	there's the respect That makes a mess of long life ,  For who would bear the whips and scorns of time ,  The oppressor's wrong ,  the proud man's insults ,  The pangs of rejected love ,  the law's delay ,  The inexperience of office ,  and the disdain That patient merit takes from the unworthy ,  When he himself might his final settlement make With a bare ,  sharp knife ? 
who would fardels bear ,  To grunt and sweat under a weary life ,  But that the dread of something after death The undiscover'd country ,  from whose bourn No traveller returns ,  puzzles the will ,  And makes us rather bear those ills we have Than fly to others that we know not of ? 	who would bear these burdens To grunt and sweat under a weary life ,  Except that the dread of something after death ,  The undiscovered country ,  from whose borders No traveler returns ,  puzzles the mind ,  And makes us bear those problems we have Rather than fly to others that we don’t know about ? 
thus conscience does make cowards of us all ,  And thus the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought ,  And enterprises of great pitch and moment With this regard their currents turn awry And lose the name of action . 	In this way ,  a conscience can make cowards of us all ,  And in this way the natural color of making up your mind Is covered with the pale shadow of thinking ,  And projects of great substance and significance ,  And in this regard ,  their movement turns erratic ,  And lose the name of action . 
soft you now ! 	wait ! 
the fair Ophelia ! 	the fair Ophelia ! 
nymph ,  in thy orisons Be all my sins remembered . 	nymph ,  in your eyes May all my sins be remembered . 
good my lord ,  How does your honour for this many a day ? 	my good lord ,  How has your honor been for this many a day ? 
I humbly thank you; well ,  well ,  well . 	I humbly thank you ,  Well ,  well ,  well . 
my lord ,  I have remembrances of yours That I have longed long to redeliver . 	my lord ,  I have mementos of yours That I have longed to re - deliver to you for a long time . 
I pray you ,  now receive them . 	I beg you ,  take them back now . 
my honour'd lord ,  you know right well you did ,  And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd As made the things more rich . 	my honored lord ,  you know right well you did ,  And with them ,  words composed of so sweet an air As made the things more rich . 
their perfume lost ,  Take these again; for to the noble mind Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind . 	their sweet air being Gone ,  take them back again ,  because to the noble mind Rich gifts grow poor when the givers prove unkind . 
there ,  my lord . 	there ,  my lord . 
are you honest ? 	are you sincere ? 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
are you fair ? 	are you truthful ? 
what means your lordship ? 	what do you mean ? 
that if you be honest and fair ,  your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty . 	that if you be sincere and truthful ,  your sincerity shouldn’t have any talks to your beauty . 
could beauty ,  my lord ,  have better commerce than with honesty ? 	could beauty ,  my lord ,  have better dealings than with sincerity ? 
ay ,  truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness . 	yes ,  truly ,  for the power of beauty will transform sincerity from what it is to a pimp faster than the force of sincerity can translate beauty into his image . 
this was sometime a paradox ,  but now the time gives it proof . 	this used to be contradictory ,  but now the time proves it’s true . 
I did love you once . 	I did love you once . 
Indeed ,  my lord ,  you made me believe so . 	Indeed ,  my lord ,  you made me believe so . 
you should not have believed me; for virtue cannot so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it . 	you should not have believed me ,  for virtue can’t graft a new plant onto our old stock but we shall relish of it . 
I loved you not . 	I didn’t love you . 
I was the more deceived . 	I was deceived all the more . 
get thee to a nunnery ! 	get yourself to a convent . 
why wouldst thou be a breeder of sinners ? 	why would you give birth to sinners ? 
I am myself indifferent honest ,  but yet I could accuse me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me . 	I don’t care about my sincerity ,  but I could accuse myself of such things that it were better my mother had not had me . 
I am very proud ,  revengeful ,  ambitious; with more offences at my beck than I have thoughts to put them in ,  imagination to give them shape ,  or time to act them in . 	I am very proud ,  revengeful ,  ambitious ,  with more offenses at my command than I have thoughts to put them in ,  imagination to give them shape ,  or time to commit them in . 
what should such fellows as I do ,  crawling between earth and heaven ? 	what should such fellows as I do crawling between earth and heaven ? 
we are arrant knaves all; believe none of us . 	we are wicked men ,  all ,  believe none of us . 
go thy ways to a nunnery . 	take yourself a convent . 
where's your father ? 	where's your father ? 
at home ,  my lord . 	at home ,  my lord . 
let the doors be shut upon him ,  that he may play the fool nowhere but in's own house . 	shut the doors on him ,  that he may play the fool nowhere else but in his own house . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
o ,  help him ,  you sweet heavens ! 	o ,  help him ,  you sweet heavens ! 
If thou dost marry ,  I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice ,  as pure as snow ,  thou shalt not escape calumny . 	If you do ,  by Mary ,  I’ll give you this curse for your wedding gift: whether you as chaste as ice ,  as pure as snow ,  you shalt not escape slander . 
get thee to a nunnery . 	go to a convent ,  go . 
go ,  farewell . 	goodbye . 
or if thou wilt needs marry ,  marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them . 	or ,  if you will marry ,  make it a fool ,  by Mary ,  for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them . 
to a nunnery ,  go; and quickly too . 	to a convent ,  go ,  and quickly too . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
o heavenly powers ,  restore him ! 	o heavenly powers ,  restore him ! 
you jig ,  you amble ,  and you lisp; and nickname God's creatures and make your wantonness your ignorance . 	you dance ,  you walk ,  and you whisper and nickname animals ,  and make your looseness your ignorance . 
I say ,  we will have no more marriages . 	I say ,  we will have no more marriages . 
those that are married already—all but one—shall live; the rest shall keep as they are . 	those that are married already ,  all but one ,  shall live ,  the rest stay the same . 
to a nunnery ,  go . 	to a convent ,  go . 
o ,  what a noble mind is here o'erthrown ! 	o ,  what a noble mind here is conquered ! 
the courtier's ,  scholar's ,  soldier's ,  eye ,  tongue ,  sword ,  The expectancy and rose of the fair state ,  The glass of fashion and the mould of form ,  The observed of all observers ,  quite ,  quite down ! 	the courtier's ,  scholar's ,  soldier's ,  eye ,  voice ,  sword ,  The hope and flower of Denmark ,  The mirror of fashion and the mold of perfect form ,  The observed of all observers ,  quite ,  quite taken down ! 
and I ,  of ladies most deject and wretched ,  That suck'd the honey of his music vows ,  Now see that noble and most sovereign reason ,  Like sweet bells jangled ,  out of tune and harsh; That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth Blasted with ecstasy . 	and I of all ladies most dejected and wretched That has tasted the honey of his musical vows ,  Now see that noble and most royal mind ,  Like sweet bells jangling ,  out of tune and harsh to hear ,  That form and feature of blown youth without equal Totally crazy . 
o ,  woe is me ,  To have seen what I have seen ,  see what I see ! 	o ,  woe is me ,  To have seen the man I have seen ,  see the man I see ! 
love ? 	love ! 
his affections do not that way tend; Nor what he spake ,  though it lack'd form a little ,  Was not like madness . 	his affections don’t go that way ,  And what he said ,  though it was a little unorganized ,  Wasn’t like craziness . 
there's something in his soul O'er which his melancholy sits on brood; And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose Will be some danger; which for to prevent ,  I have in quick determination Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England For the demand of our neglected tribute . 	there's something in his soul Over which his depression sits like a bird on an egg ,  And I doubt that egg will hatch and the  “ bird ”  Will be something dangerous ,  which to prevent ,  I have quickly decided To write it down like this . 
haply the seas ,  and countries different ,  With variable objects shall expel This something - settled matter in his heart ,  Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus From fashion of himself . 	happily the seas ,  and different countries With other things ,  shall cure and get rid of This problem in his heart that has such a hold on him ,  Which his still active brain makes him like this From being himself . 
what think you on't ? 	what do you think about it ? 
It shall do well . 	It’ll be OK . 
but yet do I believe The origin and commencement of his grief Sprung from neglected love . 	but I still believe The source and beginning of his grief Began with rejected love . 
how now ,  Ophelia ? 	how are you ,  Ophelia ! 
my lord ,  do as you please; But ,  if you hold it fit ,  after the play ,  Let his queen mother all alone entreat him To show his grief . 	my lord ,  do as you please ,  But if you think it’s OK ,  after the play ,  Let his queen mother talk to him all alone and beg him To share his problem . 
let her be round with him; And I'll be placed ,  so please you ,  in the ear Of all their conference . 	let her be strict with him ,  And I’ll be hide ,  if it pleases you ,  so I can hear Of all their conference . 
If she find him not ,  To England send him; or confine him where Your wisdom best shall think . 	If she can’t find out what’s wrong ,  Then send him to England ,  or lock him up where You think is the best place . 
It shall be so . 	that’s what I’ll do . 
madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go . 	craziness in great ones must not go unwatched . 
speak the speech ,  I pray you ,  as I pronounced it to you ,  trippingly on the tongue . 	speak the part ,  I beg you ,  as I read it to you ,  lightly on your tongue . 
but if you mouth it ,  as many of our players do ,  I had as lief the town - crier spoke my lines . 	but if you just repeat it ,  as many actors do ,  I would prefer the town crier spoke my lines . 
o ,  it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig - pated fellow tear a passion to tatters ,  to very rags ,  to split the ears of the groundlings ,  who ,  for the most part ,  are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb - shows and noise . 	o ,  it offends me to the soul to hear a hefty fellow with a wig tear an emotion to tatters ,  to very rags ,  to split the ears of the cheap seats ,  who ,  for the most part ,  are capable of nothing but confusing pantomime and noise . 
pray you avoid it . 	please avoid it . 
I warrant your honour . 	I assure you . 
be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your tutor . 	but don’t be too tame either ,  but let your own discretion be your teacher . 
suit the action to the word ,  the word to the action; with this special observance ,  that you o'erstep not the modesty of nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing ,  whose end ,  both at the first and now ,  was and is ,  to hold ,  as 'twere ,  the mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature ,  scorn her own image ,  and the very age and body of the time his form and pressure . 	fit the action to the word ,  the word to the action ,  with this special rule ,  that you don’t overstep the simplicity of being natural ,  for anything so overdone is not the purpose of playing ,  whose end ,  both at the first and now ,  was and is ,  to hold ,  as it were ,  the mirror up to nature ,  to show truth in reality ,  scorn her falseness ,  and his form and force to the very age and body of the time . 
now this overdone ,  or come tardy off ,  though it make the unskilful laugh ,  cannot but make the judicious grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance o'erweigh a whole theatre of others . 	now ,  this overacting ,  or lateness ,  though it make the ignorant laugh ,  can only make the experienced grieve ,  in whose opinion ,  you must outdo a whole theatre of other audiences in your performance . 
o ,  there be players that I have seen play ,  and heard others praise ,  and that highly ,  not to speak it profanely ,  that ,  neither having the accent of Christians ,  nor the gait of Christian ,  pagan ,  nor man ,  have so strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's journeymen had made men ,  and not made them well ,  they imitated humanity so abominably . 	o ,  there are actors that I have seen perform and heard others praise ,  and highly too ,  not to speak too harshly ,  that ,  having neither the accent of Christians ,  nor the walk of a Christian ,  a pagan ,  or a man ,  have so strutted and yelled that I have thought some of nature's hired help had made them and not made them well ,  they imitated mankind so dreadfully . 
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us ,  sir . 	I hope we have calmly overcome those problems ,  sir . 
o ,  reform it altogether ! 	o ,  overcome them with zeal . 
that's villainous and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it . 	that's horrible and shows very bad manners in the fool that uses it . 
go make you ready . 	go get ready . 
how now ,  my lord ? 	how are you ,  my lord ! 
will the King hear this piece of work ? 	will the king hear this piece of work ? 
and the Queen too ,  and that presently . 	and the queen too ,  and they should be here presently . 
we will ,  my lord . 	we will ,  my lord . 
what ,  ho ,  Horatio ! 	what ,  here ,  Horatio ! 
here ,  sweet lord ,  at your service . 	here ,  sweet lord ,  at your service . 
horatio ,  thou art e'en as just a man As e'er my conversation cop'd withal . 	horatio ,  you are just like the man That my conversation just now praised . 
why should the poor be flatter'd ? 	why should the poor be flattered ? 
no ,  let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp ,  And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee Where thrift may follow fawning . 	no ,  let the sweet tongue lick ridiculous vain glory ,  And bend the obvious hinges of the knee Where poverty may follow flattery . 
dost thou hear ? 	do you hear me ? 
since my dear soul was mistress of her choice ,  And could of men distinguish her election ,  Sh'hath seal'd thee for herself . 	since my dear soul controlled her choice ,  And could recognize men of truth ,  her choice Has taken you for herself . 
for thou hast been As one ,  in suff'ring all ,  that suffers nothing; A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those Whose blood and judgment are so well commeddled That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger To sound what stop she please . 	because you have been As one ,  that in suffering all ,  that suffers nothing ,  A man that Fortune's feasts and rewards Have taken with equal thanks ,  and blessed are those Whose blood and judgment are so well blended That they are not an instrument for Fortune's finger To play whatever song she pleases . 
give me that man That is not passion's slave ,  and I will wear him In my heart's core ,  ay ,  in my heart of heart ,  As I do thee . 	give me that man That is not passion's slave ,  and I will wear him In my heart's core ,  yes ,  in my heart of heart ,  As I do you . 
something too much of this . 	oK ,  enough of that . 
there is a play tonight before the King . 	there is a play tonight before the king . 
one scene of it comes near the circumstance ,  Which I have told thee ,  of my father's death . 	one scene of it comes near the circumstances ,  Which I have told you ,  of my father's death . 
I prithee ,  when thou seest that act afoot ,  Even with the very comment of thy soul Observe my uncle . 	I beg you ,  when you see that act begin ,  Even with the very criticism of your soul Watch my uncle . 
If his occulted guilt Do not itself unkennel in one speech ,  It is a damned ghost that we have seen ,  And my imaginations are as foul As Vulcan's stithy . 	If his hidden guilt Don’t show itself in that one speech ,  It is a false ghost that we have seen ,  And my imaginations are as unstable As god of fire’s anvil . 
give him heedful note; For I mine eyes will rivet to his face ,  And after we will both our judgments join In censure of his seeming . 	watch him carefully ,  Because I will have my eyes riveted on his face ,  And ,  after the play ,  we will combine our observations In condemning of his actions . 
well ,  my lord . 	well ,  my lord . 
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing ,  And 'scape detecting ,  I will pay the theft . 	If he steals anything the while this play is going on ,  And he escapes detection ,  I will pay for the theft . 
they are coming to the play . 	they are coming to the play . 
I must be idle . 	I must be idle . 
get you a place . 	go get yourself a seat . 
how fares our cousin Hamlet ? 	how’s our cousin Hamlet ? 
excellent ,  i' faith; of the chameleon's dish . 	excellent ,  really ,  of the chameleon's dish . 
I eat the air ,  promise - cramm'd . 	I eat the air ,  crammed with promises . 
you cannot feed capons so . 	you can’t eat capons that way . 
no ,  nor mine now . 	no ,  for me now . 
my lord ,  you play'd once i' th' university ,  you say ? 	my lord ,  you acted once when you were in the university ,  you say ? 
that did I ,  my lord ,  and was accounted a good actor . 	that did I ,  my lord ,  and I was accounted a good actor . 
what did you enact ? 	what did you enact ? 
I did enact Julius Caesar; I was killed i' the Capitol; Brutus killed me . 	I did enact Julius Caesar ,  I was killed in the Capitol ,  Brutus killed me . 
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there . 	It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a stupid fellow there . 
be the players ready . 	are the players ready ? 
come hither ,  my dear Hamlet ,  sit by me . 	come hear ,  my dear Hamlet ,  sit by me . 
o ,  ho ! 	o ,  ho ! 
do you mark that ? 	do you see that ? 
lady ,  shall I lie in your lap ? 	lady ,  shall I lie in your lap ? 
no ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
I mean ,  my head upon your lap ? 	I mean ,  lay my head on your lap ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
do you think I meant country matters ? 	do you think I meant sexual matters ? 
I think nothing ,  my lord . 	I think nothing ,  my lord . 
that's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs . 	that's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs . 
what is ,  my lord ? 	what is ,  my lord ? 
nothing . 	nothing . 
you are merry ,  my lord . 	you are merry ,  my lord . 
who ,  I ? 	who ,  me ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
o God ,  your only jig - maker ! 	o ,  your only dancer ! 
what should a man do but be merry ? 	what should a man do but be merry ? 
for ,  look you ,  how cheerfully my mother looks ,  and my father died within's two hours . 	because look how cheerfully my mother looks ,  and my father died within these two hours . 
nay 'tis twice two months ,  my lord . 	no ,  it is four months ,  my lord . 
so long ? 	so long ? 
nay then ,  let the devil wear black ,  for I'll have a suit of sables . 	no then ,  let the devil wear black ,  for I’ll have a suit of black fur . 
o heavens ! 	o heavens ! 
die two months ago ,  and not forgotten yet ? 	died two months ago and not forgotten yet ? 
marry ,  this is miching mallecho; it means mischief . 	by Mary ,  this is miching mallecho ,  it means mischief . 
belike this show imports the argument of the play . 	It’s as if this show describes the argument of the play . 
we shall know by this fellow . 	we shall know by this fellow . 
the players cannot keep counsel; they'll tell all . 	the players cannot keep a secret ,  they'll tell all . 
will he tell us what this show meant ? 	will he tell us what this show meant ? 
ay ,  or any show that you'll show him . 	yes ,  or any show that you'll show him . 
be not you ashamed to show ,  he'll not shame to tell you what it means . 	If you are not ashamed to show ,  he won’t be ashamed to tell you what it means . 
you are naught ,  you are naught ! 	keep quiet ,  keep quiet . 
I'll mark the play . 	I’ll watch the play . 
for us ,  and for our tragedy ,  Here stooping to your clemency ,  We beg your hearing patiently . 	for us and for our tragedy ,  Here stooping to your clemency ,  We beg you listen patiently . 
Is this a prologue ,  or the posy of a ring ? 	Is this a prologue or a ring of flowers ? 
tis brief ,  my lord . 	It is short ,  my lord . 
as woman's love . 	as woman's love . 
so many journeys may the sun and moon Make us again count o'er ere love be done ! 	so many journeys may the sun and moon Make us count again before love is finished ! 
that I distrust you . 	that I don’t trust you . 
now ,  what my love is ,  proof hath made you know; And as my love is sized ,  my fear is so . 	now ,  you know how I love you has been proven to you ,  And as my love is cannot be measured ,  so is my fear . 
where love is great ,  the littlest doubts are fear; Where little fears grow great ,  great love grows there . 	where love is great ,  the littlest doubts are very fearful ,  Where little fears grow great ,  great love also grows there . 
such love must needs be treason in my breast . 	such love must be treason in my breast . 
In second husband let me be accurst ! 	let me be cursed if I marry again ! 
none wed the second but who killed the first . 	no one marries the second without killing the first love . 
the instances that second marriage move Are base respects of thrift ,  but none of love . 	the reasons for a second marriage Are low respects of saving money ,  but not for love . 
a second time I kill my husband dead When second husband kisses me in bed . 	I kill my husband dead a second time When second husband kisses me in bed . 
I do believe you think what now you speak; But what we do determine oft we break . 	I believe you believe what you say now ,  But what we determine to ,  often we don’t . 
purpose is but the slave to memory ,  Of violent birth ,  but poor validity; Which now ,  like fruit unripe ,  sticks on the tree ,  But fall unshaken when they mellow be . 	promises are only good when you remember them ,  Born of violence but poor truth ,  Which now ,  like unripe fruit ,  stays on the tree ,  But fall without shaking them off when they are ripe . 
most necessary 'tis that we forget To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt . 	It is very necessary that we forget To pay ourselves what we owe to ourselves . 
what to ourselves in passion we propose ,  The passion ending ,  doth the purpose lose . 	what we promise ourselves in a fit of passion ,  When the passion ends ,  so does the promise . 
the violence of either grief or joy Their own enactures with themselves destroy . 	the violence of either grief or joy Destroys their own keeping of them with themselves . 
where joy most revels ,  grief doth most lament; Grief joys ,  joy grieves ,  on slender accident . 	where joy celebrates ,  grief mourns greatly ,  Grief joys ,  joy griefs ,  on a very slender event . 
this world is not for aye ,  nor 'tis not strange That even our loves should with our fortunes change; For 'tis a question left us yet to prove ,  Whether love lead fortune ,  or else fortune love . 	this world doesn’t say yes ,  and it’s not strange at all That even our loves should change with our fortunes ,  Because it’s a question we have to prove ,  When love leads fortune ,  or if fortune leads love . 
but ,  orderly to end where I begun ,  Our wills and fates do so contrary run That our devices still are overthrown; Our thoughts are ours ,  their ends none of our own . 	but ,  to go back to where I started ,  Our wills and fates run in so much in different directions ,  That our plans are still turned upside down ,  Our thoughts are ours ,  but their results aren’t ours . 
so think thou wilt no second husband wed; But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead . 	so you think you won’t marry again ,  But you’ll change your mind when your first lord is dead . 
If she should break it now ! 	If she should break the moment now ! 
tis deeply sworn . 	It is a very deep oath . 
sleep rock thy brain ,  And never come mischance between us twain ! 	sleep rock your brain ,  And may misfortune never mischance between us two ! 
madam ,  how like you this play ? 	madam ,  how like you this play ? 
the lady doth protest too much ,  methinks . 	the lady protests too much ,  I think . 
o ,  but she'll keep her word . 	o ,  but she'll keep her word . 
have you heard the argument ? 	have you heard the story ? 
Is there no offence in't ? 	It’s not offensive ,  is it ? 
no ,  no ! 	no ,  no ! 
they do but jest ,  poison in jest; no offence i' the world . 	they only pretend ,  pretend to poison ,  no offense in the world . 
what do you call the play ? 	what’s the name of the play ? 
the Mousetrap . 	the Mousetrap . 
marry ,  how ? 	by Mary ,  how ? 
tropically . 	a metaphor . 
this play is the image of a murder done in Vienna . 	this play is the image of a murder done in Vienna . 
tis a knavish piece of work; but what o' that ? 	but what o' that ? 
your Majesty ,  and we that have free souls ,  it touches us not . 	your majesty ,  and we that have free souls can’t be touched by it . 
let the galled jade winch; our withers are unwrung . 	let the bitter hussy kick ,  our saddles don’t pinch . 
this is one Lucianus ,  nephew to the King . 	this is one Lucianus ,  nephew to the King . 
you are as good as a chorus ,  my lord . 	you are a good chorus ,  my lord . 
I could interpret between you and your love ,  if I could see the puppets dallying . 	I could translate between you and your love ,  if I could see the toys flirting . 
you are keen ,  my lord ,  you are keen . 	you are forward ,  my lord ,  you are forward . 
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge . 	It would cost you a night in bed to take the edge off me . 
still better ,  and worse . 	even better ,  and worse . 
so you must take your husbands . 	and that’s how you must take your husbands . 
begin ,  murderer . 	begin ,  murderer ,  argh ! 
pox ,  leave thy damnable faces ,  and begin ! 	enough with the bad faces ,  and begin . 
he poisons him i' the garden for his estate . 	he poisons him in the garden for his estate . 
his name's Gonzago . 	his name's Gonzago . 
the King rises . 	the King rises . 
what ,  frighted with false fire ? 	what ,  frightened by false fire ! 
how fares my lord ? 	how are you ,  my lord ? 
give o'er the play . 	stop the play . 
give me some light . 	give me some light . 
away ! 	let’s go ! 
lights ,  lights ,  lights ! 	lights ,  lights ,  lights ! 
would not this ,  sir ,  and a forest of feathers—if the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me—with two Provincial roses on my razed shoes ,  get me a fellowship in a cry of players ,  sir ? 	wouldn’t this do it ,  sir ,  together with a forest of feathers if the rest of my fortunes turn against with me ,  with two Provincial roses on my shoes I took off ,  to get me a fellowship for writing with a pack of players ,  sir ? 
half a share . 	half a share . 
you might have rhymed . 	you might have rhymed those lines . 
o good Horatio ,  I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand pound ! 	o good Horatio ,  I’ll take the ghost's word for as real as a thousand dollars ! 
didst perceive ? 	did you see ? 
very well ,  my lord . 	very well ,  my lord . 
upon the talk of the poisoning ? 	when the talk was about the poisoning ? 
I did very well note him . 	I watched him very well . 
ah ,  ha ! 	ah ,  ha ! 
come ,  some music ! 	come ,  some music ! 
come ,  some music ! 	come ,  some music ! 
good my lord ,  vouchsafe me a word with you . 	my good my lord ,  may I a word with you . 
sir ,  a whole history . 	sir ,  I’ll give you a whole history . 
the King ,  sir— Ay ,  sir ,  what of him ? 	the king ,  sir Yes ,  sir ,  what about him ? 
Is in his retirement ,  marvellous distempered . 	he’s ,  in his retirement to bed ,  exceedingly upset . 
with drink ,  sir ? 	with drink ,  sir ? 
no ,  my lord; rather with choler . 	no ,  my lord ,  rather with anger . 
your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to the doctor; for ,  me to put him to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far more choler . 	you’d be wiser and look better if you told all this to the doctor ,  because for me to try to purge him of anger would probably make him more angry . 
good my lord ,  put your discourse into some frame ,  and start not so wildly from my affair . 	my good lord ,  please re - phrase what you’re saying ,  and don’t give me answers so far away from my question . 
I am tame ,  sir . 	I am calm ,  sir . 
pronounce . 	ask away . 
the Queen ,  your mother ,  in most great affliction of spirit hath sent me to you . 	the queen ,  your mother ,  in most great affliction of spirit ,  has sent me to you . 
you are welcome . 	you are welcome . 
nay ,  good my lord ,  this courtesy is not of the right breed . 	no ,  good my lord ,  this courtesy is not the right answer . 
sir ,  I cannot . 	sir ,  I cannot . 
what ,  my lord ? 	what ,  my lord ? 
but ,  sir ,  such answer as I can make ,  you shall command; or rather ,  as you say ,  my mother . 	but ,  sir ,  such answer as I can make ,  you shall command ,  or rather ,  as you say ,  my mother shall command . 
therefore no more ,  but to the matter ! 	oK ,  I’ll say no more but to the problem . 
o wonderful son ,  that can so astonish a mother ! 	o wonderful son ,  that can so astonish a mother ! 
but is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration ? 	but isn’t there a sequel that follows this mother's surprise ? 
she desires to speak with you in her closet ,  ere you go to bed . 	she wants to speak with you in her bedroom before you go to bed . 
we shall obey ,  were she ten times our mother . 	we shall obey ,  if she were ten times our mother . 
have you any further trade with us ? 	have you any else to tell me ? 
my lord ,  you once did love me . 	my lord ,  you loved me once . 
so I do still ,  by these pickers and stealers ! 	and I still do ,  by these thieves and robbers . 
good my lord ,  what is your cause of distemper ? 	my good lord ,  what is your cause of your problem ? 
you do surely bar the door upon your own liberty ,  if you deny your griefs to your friend . 	you certainly bar the door to your own freedom if you don’t tell your problems to your friend . 
sir ,  I lack advancement . 	sir ,  I don’t have a promotion . 
how can that be ,  when you have the voice of the King himself for your succession in Denmark ? 	how can that be ,  when the king himself says you will succeed him to the throne in Denmark ? 
ay ,  sir ,  but 'while the grass grows'—the proverb is something musty . 	yes ,  sir ,  but  “ While the grass grows ” — the proverb is a bit old - fashioned . 
o ,  the recorders ! 	o ,  the pipes . 
let me see one . 	let me see one . 
to withdraw with you— why do you go about to recover the wind of me ,  as if you would drive me into a toil ? 	to divert your attention ,  why do you go about trying to figure me out ,  as if you’re to pick a fight ? 
o ,  my lord ,  if my duty be too bold ,  my love is too unmannerly . 	o my lord ,  if my duty is too bold ,  it’s because my love has no manners . 
I do not well understand that . 	I don’t understand that at all . 
will you play upon this pipe ? 	will you play on this pipe ? 
my lord ,  I cannot . 	my lord ,  I can’t . 
I pray you . 	I beg you . 
believe me ,  I cannot . 	believe me ,  I can’t . 
I do beseech you . 	I’m begging you . 
I know no touch of it ,  my lord . 	I don’t know how to play it ,  my lord . 
It is as easy as lying . 	It’s as easy as lying . 
govern these ventages with your fingers and thumbs ,  give it breath with your mouth ,  and it will discourse most eloquent music . 	just close up these holes with your finger and thumb ,  put it in your mouth and blow ,  and it will yield the most eloquent music . 
look you ,  these are the stops . 	look you ,  these are the holes to cover . 
why ,  look you now ,  how unworthy a thing you make of me ! 	why ,  look here ,  at what an unworthy a thing you make of me ! 
you would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music ,  excellent voice ,  in this little organ ,  yet cannot you make it speak . 	you would play me ,  you would seem to know my holes to cover ,  you want to pick out the heart of my mystery ,  you would sound me from my lowest note to the my highest note ,  and there is much music ,  excellent voice ,  in this little pipe ,  yet you can’t play it . 
sblood ,  do you think I am easier to be played on than a pipe ? 	do you think it is easier to play me than a pipe ? 
call me what instrument you will ,  though you can fret me ,  you cannot play upon me . 	call me whatever instrument you want to ,  although you can try to cover my holes me ,  you can’t play me . 
god bless you ,  sir ! 	god bless you ,  sir ! 
my lord ,  the Queen would speak with you ,  and presently . 	my lord ,  the queen wants to speak with you right now . 
do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel ? 	do you see that cloud over there that's almost in shape of a camel ? 
by the mass ,  and 'tis like a camel ,  indeed . 	by the mass ,  it is indeed like a camel . 
methinks it is like a weasel . 	I think it is like a weasel . 
It is backed like a weasel . 	It is shaped like a weasel . 
or like a whale . 	or like a whale . 
very like a whale . 	very like a whale . 
then will I come to my mother by and by . 	then I will go to my mother by and by . 
I will say so . 	I will say so . 
by and by' is easily said . 	by - and - by is easily said . 
leave me ,  friends . 	leave me ,  friends . 
tis now the very witching time of night ,  When churchyards yawn ,  and hell itself breathes out Contagion to this world . 	now ,  it’s the very witching time of night ,  When churchyards awake ,  and hell itself breathes out Disease to this world . 
now could I drink hot blood ,  And do such bitter business as the day Would quake to look on . 	now I could drink hot blood ,  And do such wicked deed that the day Would shake nervously to see . 
soft ! 	listen ! 
now to my mother ! 	now to my mother . 
o heart ,  lose not thy nature; let not ever The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom . 	o heart ,  don’t give up now ,  don’t ever let the soul of Nero ,  the crazy emperor ,  enter this determined heart . 
I like him not ,  nor stands it safe with us To let his madness range . 	I don’t like him ,  and it doesn’t seem to be safe to us To let his craziness run free . 
the terms of our estate may not endure Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow Out of his brows . 	the terms of our estate may not endure With danger so near to us as his craziness seems To get worse by the hour . 
we will ourselves provide . 	we will get ourselves ready . 
most holy and religious fear it is To keep those many many bodies safe That live and feed upon your Majesty . 	It’s a most holy and religious fear To keep those many ,  many bodies safe That depend upon your majesty . 
the single and peculiar life is bound With all the strength and armour of the mind To keep itself from noyance; but much more That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests The lives of many . 	the single and peculiar life is bound ,  With all the strength and amour of the mind ,  To keep itself from madness ,  but much more so For that spirit on whose government the lives of many Depend and rest . 
the cess of majesty Dies not alone ,  but like a gulf doth draw What's near it with it . 	the government of a King Dies with him ,  but draws what's near it with it ,  like a gulf . 
It is a massy wheel ,  Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount ,  To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things Are mortised and adjoin'd; which ,  when it falls ,  Each small annexment ,  petty consequence ,  Attends the boisterous ruin . 	It is a massive wheel ,  Set at the top of the highest mountain ,  In which its huge spokes ,  ten thousand little things Are firmly glued together ,  that ,  when the wheel falls ,  Each small piece ,  insignificant event ,  Adds to the noisy ruin of the country . 
never alone Did the King sigh ,  but with a general groan . 	the King never Sighed by himself ,  but with the whole country’s groan . 
arm you ,  I pray you ,  to this speedy voyage; For we will fetters put upon this fear ,  Which now goes too free - footed . 	get started ,  I beg you ,  on this speedy voyage ,  For we will control this fear ,  Which now goes about too freely . 
we will haste us . 	we will go quickly . 
my lord ,  he's going to his mother's closet . 	my lord ,  he's going to his mother's bedroom . 
behind the arras I'll convey myself ,  To hear the process . 	I’ll hide myself behind the curtain so I can hear what happens ,  I’ll guarantee she'll set him Straight . 
I'll warrant she'll tax him home; And ,  as you said ,  and wisely was it said ,  'tis meet that some more audience than a mother ,  Since nature makes them partial ,  should o'erhear The speech ,  of vantage . 	and ,  as you said ,  and wisely it was said ,  It is proper that some beside his mother ,  Since nature makes them subjective ,  should overhear The speech objectively . 
fare you well ,  my liege . 	goodbye ,  my lord . 
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed And tell you what I know . 	I’ll call on you before you go to bed ,  And tell you what I know . 
thanks ,  dear my lord . 	thanks ,  my dear lord . 
what if this cursed hand Were thicker than itself with brother's blood ,  Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens To wash it white as snow ? 	what if this cursed hand Were thicker than itself with my brother's blood ,  Isn’t there enough rain in the sweet heavens To wash it as white as snow ? 
whereto serves mercy But to confront the visage of offence ? 	what use is mercy Except to confront the face of offense ? 
and what's in prayer but this twofold force ,  To be forestalled ere we come to fall ,  Or pardon'd being down ? 	and what's in prayer except this double force ,  To be prevented from falling down ,  Or pardoned since we are down ? 
then I'll look up; My fault is past . 	then I’ll look up ,  My sin is committed . 
but ,  O ,  what form of prayer Can serve my turn ? 	but ,  O ,  what form of prayer Can help me ? 
forgive me my foul murder ? 	forgive me of my foul murder ! 
that cannot be; since I am still possess'd Of those effects for which I did the murder— My crown ,  mine own ambition ,  and my queen . 	that can’t be it ,  since I still have All those things for which I did the murder ,  My crown ,  my own ambition ,  and my queen . 
may one be pardon'd and retain the offence ? 	may one be forgiven a sin and still hold on to its benefits ? 
what then ? 	what then ? 
what rests ? 	what stops ? 
try what repentance can . 	I’ll see what being sorry does . 
what can it not ? 	what can’t it do ? 
o bosom black as death ! 	o heart as black as death ! 
o limed soul ,  that ,  struggling to be free ,  Art more engaged ! 	o dissolving soul ,  that ,  struggling to be free ,  Is more a slave ! 
help ,  angels ! 	help ,  angels ! 
make assay . 	make an attempt . 
bow ,  stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel ,  Be soft as sinews of the new - born babe ! 	bow ,  stubborn knees ,  and ,  heart ,  with strings of steel ,  Be soft as the muscles of the newborn baby ! 
all may be well . 	all may be well . 
that would be scann'd . 	I must think about that . 
a villain kills my father; and for that ,  I ,  his sole son ,  do this same villain send To heaven . 	a villain kills my father ,  and for that ,  I ,  his sole son ,  do this same villain send To heaven . 
o ,  this is hire and salary ,  not revenge ! 	o ,  this is a contract and pay ,  not revenge . 
he took my father grossly ,  full of bread ,  With all his crimes broad blown ,  as flush as May; And how his audit stands ,  who knows save heaven ? 	he took my father grossly ,  full of food ,  With all his sins on his soul ,  as full of bloom as May ,  And how his report stands ,  who knows except heaven ? 
no . 	no . 
up ,  sword ,  and know thou a more horrid hent . 	up ,  sword ,  and know a more horrid intention . 
when he is drunk asleep; or in his rage; Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed; At game ,  a - swearing ,  or about some act That has no relish of salvation in't Then trip him ,  that his heels may kick at heaven ,  And that his soul may be as damn'd and black As hell ,  whereto it goes . 	when he is asleep drunk ,  or in his rage ,  Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed ,  At gaming ,  swearing ,  or committing some act That has no element of salvation in it ,  Then attack him ,  so that his heels may kick at heaven ,  And that his soul may be as damned and black As hell ,  where it goes to . 
my mother stays . 	my mother is waiting . 
this physic but prolongs thy sickly days . 	this relief only makes your sickly days longer . 
my words fly up ,  my thoughts remain below . 	my words go up ,  my thoughts stay here below . 
words without thoughts never to heaven go . 	words without thoughts never go to heaven . 
he will come straight . 	he will come right away . 
look you lay home to him . 	see that you are direct with him . 
tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with ,  And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between Much heat and him . 	tell him his pranks have been too excessive to put up With ,  and that your grace has taken a lot of heat because Of him . 
I'll silence me even here . 	I’ll hide here silently . 
pray you ,  be round with him . 	I beg you ,  be firm with him . 
withdraw; I hear him coming . 	hide ,  I hear him coming . 
now ,  mother ,  what's the matter ? 	now ,  mother ,  what's the matter ? 
hamlet ,  thou hast thy father much offended . 	hamlet ,  you have offended your father very much . 
mother ,  you have my father much offended . 	mother ,  you have offended my father very much . 
come ,  come ,  you answer with an idle tongue . 	come ,  come ,  you answer me stupidly . 
go ,  go ,  you question with a wicked tongue . 	go ,  go ,  you answer me with wickedness . 
why ,  how now ,  Hamlet ? 	why ,  how can you ,  Hamlet ! 
what's the matter now ? 	what's the matter now ? 
have you forgot me ? 	have you forgotten I’m your mother ? 
no ,  by the rood ,  not so ! 	no ,  by the church ,  I haven’t . 
you are the Queen ,  your husband's brother's wife ,  And—would it were not so—you are my mother . 	you are the Queen ,  your husband's brother's wife ,  And ,  I wish it wasn’t so ,  but you are my mother . 
nay ,  then ,  I'll set those to you that can speak . 	no ,  then ,  I’ll send those to you who can speak . 
what wilt thou do ? 	what will you do ? 
thou wilt not murder me ? 	you wilt not murder me ? 
help ,  help ,  ho ! 	help ,  help ,  ho ! 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  ho ! 
help ,  help ,  help ! 	help ,  help ,  help ! 
draws . 	draws . 
o ,  I am slain ! 	o ,  I am slain ! 
o me ,  what hast thou done ? 	o me ,  what have you done ? 
nay ,  I know not . 	no ,  I don’t know . 
Is it the King ? 	Is it the king ? 
o ,  what a rash and bloody deed is this ! 	o ,  what a thoughtless and bloody deed this is ! 
a bloody deed . 	a bloody deed ! 
almost as bad ,  good mother ,  As kill a king ,  and marry with his brother . 	almost as bad ,  good mother ,  As killing a king and marrying his brother . 
as kill a king ? 	as killing a king ! 
ay ,  lady ,  it was my word . 	yes ,  lady ,  that’s what I said . 
thou wretched ,  rash ,  intruding fool ,  farewell ! 	you wretched ,  rash ,  intruding fool ,  goodbye ! 
I took thee for thy better . 	I mistook you for the King . 
leave wringing of your hands . 	leave wringing of your hands . 
peace ! 	quiet ! 
what have I done ,  that thou darest wag thy tongue In noise so rude against me ? 	what have I done ,  that you dare scream at me So loudly and rudely ? 
heaven's face doth glow; Yea ,  this solidity and compound mass ,  With tristful visage ,  as against the doom ,  Is thought - sick at the act . 	heaven's face glows— Yes ,  this solid and compound body With a trustful face— as against the end of the world ,  Is sickened by the thought of the act . 
ay me ,  what act ,  That roars so loud and thunders in the index ? 	ah me ,  what act Roars so loudly and thunders in the wind ? 
look here upon this picture ,  and on this ,  The counterfeit presentment of two brothers . 	look here upon this picture and on this one ,  The representation of two brothers . 
here is your husband ,  like a mildew'd ear Blasting his wholesome brother . 	here is your husband ,  like a mildewed ear of corn Poisoning his wholesome brother . 
have you eyes ? 	have you got eyes ? 
could you on this fair mountain leave to feed ,  And batten on this Moor ? 	could you feed on this fair mountain ,  And glut yourself on this swamp ? 
ha ! 	huh ? 
have you eyes ? 	have you got Eyes ? 
what devil was't That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman - blind ? 	what devil Was it that trick you like this with a blindfold ? 
eyes without feeling ,  feeling without sight ,  Ears without hands or eyes ,  smelling sans all ,  Or but a sickly part of one true sense Could not so mope . 	eyes without feeling ,  feeling without sight ,  Ears without hands or eyes ,  smelling without them all ,  Or a sickly part of one true sense Couldn’t act like this without a conscious thought . 
o shame ! 	o shame ! 
where is thy blush ? 	aren’t you embarrassed ? 
rebellious hell ,  If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones ,  To flaming youth let virtue be as wax And melt in her own fire . 	rebellious hell ,  If you can rebel in an old lady’s bones ,  Then let virtue be like wax to burning youth ,  And melt in her own fire . 
proclaim no shame When the compulsive ardour gives the charge ,  Since frost itself as actively doth burn ,  And reason panders will . 	proclaim no shame When the compulsive passion takes charge ,  Since frost itself burns as well ,  And reason pimps the will . 
o Hamlet ,  speak no more ! 	o Hamlet ,  don’t say anything else . 
thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul ,  And there I see such black and grained spots As will not leave their tinct . 	you turn my eyes into my very soul ,  And there I see such black and grainy spots As will not leave their color . 
nay ,  but to live In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed ,  Stew'd in corruption ,  honeying and making love Over the nasty sty ! 	no ,  but to live In the rotten sweat of an greasy bed ,  Stewed in corruption ,  using sweet words and making love Over the nasty pig sty . 
no more ! 	no more . 
a king of shreds and patches ! 	a king of shreds and patches ! 
save me and hover o'er me with your wings ,  You heavenly guards ! 	save me and hover over me with your wings ,  You heavenly guards ! 
what would your gracious figure ? 	what does you gracious figure want ? 
alas ,  he's mad ! 	alas ,  he's crazy ! 
do you not come your tardy son to chide ,  That ,  lapsed in time and passion ,  lets go by The important acting of your dread command ? 	don’t you come to scold your tardy son ,  That ,  forgetting time and passion ,  lets The important acting of your dread command go by ? 
o ,  say ! 	o ,  tell me ! 
do not forget . 	don’t forget . 
this visitation Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose . 	this visitation Is only to sharpen your almost dull purpose . 
but look ,  amazement on thy mother sits . 	but ,  look ,  amazement sits on your mother’s face . 
speak to her ,  Hamlet . 	speak to her ,  Hamlet . 
how is it with you ,  lady ? 	how are you ,  lady ? 
alas ,  how is't with you ,  That you do bend your eye on vacancy ,  And with the incorporal air do hold discourse ? 	alas ,  how are you ,  That you look on empty space ,  And carry on a conversation with the invisible air ? 
forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep; And ,  as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm ,  Your bedded hairs ,  like life in excrements ,  Start up and stand on end . 	your spirits wildly peep from your eyes ,  And ,  as the sleeping soldiers at the alarm ,  Your bedded hairs ,  like life in growths ,  Start up and stand an end . 
o gentle son ,  Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper Sprinkle cool patience ! 	o gentle son ,  Sprinkle cool patience on the heat and flame of your Anger ! 
whereon do you look ? 	where do you look ? 
on him ,  on him ! 	on him ,  on him ! 
look you how pale he glares ! 	look how pale he glares ! 
then what I have to do Will want true colour—tears perchance for blood . 	then what I have to do Will need true colours ,  tears perhaps for blood . 
to whom do you speak this ? 	to whom do you speak this ? 
do you see nothing there ? 	do you see nothing there ? 
nothing at all; yet all that is I see . 	nothing at all ,  yet all that I see is . 
nor did you nothing hear ? 	you hear nothing ? 
no ,  nothing but ourselves . 	no ,  nothing but ourselves . 
why ,  look you there ! 	why ,  look there ! 
look how it steals away ! 	look how it steals away ! 
my father ,  in his habit as he liv'd ! 	my father in his clothes as he lived ! 
look where he goes even now out at the portal ! 	look ,  where he goes ,  even now out the door ! 
this is the very coinage of your brain . 	this is the very product of your brain . 
this bodiless creation ecstasy Is very cunning in . 	this bodiless creation Is very cunning In imagination . 
ecstasy ? 	Imagination ! 
my pulse as yours doth temperately keep time And makes as healthful music . 	my pulse does temperately keep time like yours ,  And is just as healthful as yours . 
It is not madness That I have utt'red . 	It’s not craziness That I have spoken . 
bring me to the test ,  And I the matter will reword; which madness Would gambol from . 	test me ,  And I will re - word the problem ,  which madness Would run away from . 
mother ,  for love of grace ,  Lay not that flattering unction to your soul That not your trespass but my madness speaks . 	mother ,  for love of grace ,  Don’t put that flattering oil on your soul That says my craziness speaks and not your sin . 
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place ,  Whiles rank corruption ,  mining all within ,  Infects unseen . 	It will only create a scab and film over the ulcer ,  While rotten corruption ,  working within everything ,  Infects it unseen . 
confess yourself to heaven; Repent what's past; avoid what is to come; And do not spread the compost on the weeds To make them ranker . 	confess yourself to heaven ,  Repent what's past ,  avoid what is to come ,  And don’t spread fertilizer on the weeds ,  To make them more rotten . 
forgive me this my virtue; For in the fatness of these pursy times Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg Yea ,  curb and woo for leave to do him good . 	forgive me my truth ,  Because ,  in the fatness of these wealthy times Virtue itself must beg pardon of vice ,  Yes ,  beg and court for permission to do him good . 
o Hamlet ,  thou hast cleft my heart in twain . 	o Hamlet ,  you cut my heart in two . 
o ,  throw away the worser part of it ,  And live the purer with the other half ,  Good night—but go not to my uncle's bed . 	o ,  throw away the worse part of it ,  And live the purer life with the other half . 
assume a virtue ,  if you have it not . 	but don’t go to my uncle's bed ,  Act as though you have a virtue if you don’t have it . 
that monster ,  custom ,  who all sense doth eat Of habits evil ,  is angel yet in this ,  That to the use of actions fair and good He likewise gives a frock or livery ,  That aptly is put on . 	that monster habit ,  who eats all sense ,  Of all evil habits is an angel in this ,  That in order to use fair and good actions ,  He likewise gives a dress or uniform That is ready to wear . 
refrain to - night ,  And that shall lend a kind of easiness To the next abstinence; the next more easy; For use almost can change the stamp of nature ,  And [either master] the devil ,  or throw him out With wondrous potency . 	the next more easy ,  For use can almost change what is natural ,  And can either curb the devil or throw him out With wondrous effectiveness . 
for this same lord ,  I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so ,  To punish me with this ,  and this with me ,  That I must be their scourge and minister . 	I am sorry ,  but heaven has decided it to be this way ,  To punish me with this act ,  and punish this act with me ,  That I must be their whip and whip - er . 
I will bestow him ,  and will answer well The death I gave him . 	I will hide him ,  and will answer the death I gave him well . 
so again ,  good night . 	so again ,  goodnight . 
one word more ,  good lady . 	one word more ,  good lady . 
what shall I do ? 	what shall I do ? 
twere good you let him know; For who that's but a queen ,  fair ,  sober ,  wise ,  Would from a paddock ,  from a bat ,  a gib Such dear concernings hide ? 	don’t think it’s good to tell him ,  For who except a queen ,  fair ,  sober ,  wise ,  Would hide from a frog ,  from a bat ,  a cat ,  Such dear concerns ? 
who would do so ? 	who would do so ? 
no ,  in despite of sense and secrecy ,  Unpeg the basket on the house's top ,  Let the birds fly ,  and like the famous ape ,  To try conclusions ,  in the basket creep And break your own neck down . 	no ,  in spite of sense and secrecy ,  Don’t open the basket on the roof ,  Let the birds fly ,  and ,  like the famous ape To test conclusions ,  don’t creep into the basket And break your own neck . 
be thou assur'd ,  if words be made of breath ,  And breath of life ,  I have no life to breathe What thou hast said to me . 	be assured ,  if words are made of breath ,  And breath is made of life ,  I have no life to breathe What you have said to me . 
I must to England; you know that ? 	I must go to England ,  you know that ? 
alack ,  I had forgot ! 	alack ,  I had forgotten . 
let it work; For 'tis the sport to have the enginer Hoist with his own petar; and ' shall go hard But I will delve one yard below their mines And blow them at the moon . 	let it be ,  Because it’s the sport to have the swordsman Killed with his own sword ,  and it won’t be easy But I will dig one yard below their mines And blow them at the moon . 
o ,  'tis most sweet When in one line two crafts directly meet . 	o ,  it is most sweet ,  When you can kill two birds with one stone . 
mother ,  good night . 	mother ,  goodnight . 
Indeed ,  this counsellor Is now most still ,  most secret ,  and most grave ,  Who was in life a foolish prating knave . 	Indeed ,  this counselor Is now most still ,  most secret ,  and most grave ,  Who was a foolish gabby rogue in life . 
come ,  sir ,  to draw toward an end with you . 	come ,  sir ,  to finish up with you . 
good night ,  mother . 	good night ,  mother . 
there's matter in these sighs . 	there's a problem in these sighs . 
where is your son ? 	where is your son ? 
bestow this place on us a little while . 	leave us alone for a little while . 
ah ,  mine own lord ,  what have I seen tonight ! 	ah ,  my good lord ,  what have I seen tonight ! 
what ,  Gertrude ? 	what ,  Gertrude ? 
how does Hamlet ? 	how is Hamlet ? 
mad as the sea and wind when both contend Which is the mightier . 	as crazy as the sea and wind ,  when both fight over Which is mightier . 
In his lawless fit ,  Behind the arras hearing something stir ,  Whips out his rapier ,  cries 'A rat ,  a rat ! 	In his wild fit ,  Hearing something stir behind the curtain ,  He whips out his knife ,  cries 'A rat ,  a rat ! 
and in this brainish apprehension kills The unseen good old man . 	and in this headstrong state ,  kills The hidden good old man . 
o heavy deed ! 	o heavy deed ! 
It had been so with us ,  had we been there . 	It would’ve been us if we had been there . 
his liberty is full of threats to all ,  To you yourself ,  to us ,  to every one . 	his freedom is full of threats to everyone ,  To you yourself ,  to us ,  to every one . 
alas ,  how shall this bloody deed be answer'd ? 	alas ,  how shall this bloody deed be explained ? 
It will be laid to us ,  whose providence Should have kept short ,  restrain'd ,  and out of haunt This mad young man . 	It will be our fault ,  who Should’ve kept this mad young man on a short leash ,  Restrained ,  and out of society . 
but so much was our love We would not understand what was most fit ,  But ,  like the owner of a foul disease ,  To keep it from divulging ,  let it feed Even on the pith of life . 	but we loved him so much That we would not understand what was the best action ,  But ,  like the owner of a dirty disease ,  To keep it from showing ,  let it feed Even on the core of life . 
where is he gone ? 	where has he gone ? 
he weeps for what is done . 	he weeps for what is done . 
o Gertrude ,  come away ! 	o Gertrude ,  let’s go ! 
ho ,  Guildenstern ! 	ho ,  Guildenstern ! 
friends both ,  go join you with some further aid . 	friends both ,  go get some further assistance . 
hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain ,  And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him . 	hamlet has Polonius slain in insanity ,  And he has dragged him from his mother's bedroom . 
go seek him out; speak fair ,  and bring the body Into the chapel . 	go find him ,  speak gently ,  and bring the body Into the chapel . 
I pray you haste in this . 	I beg you ,  hurry . 
come ,  Gertrude ,  we'll call up our wisest friends And let them know both what we mean to do And what's untimely done . 	come ,  Gertrude ,  we'll call up our wisest friends ,  And let them know both what we mean to do And what's done at an unfortunate time . 
so haply slander Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter ,  As level as the cannon to his blank ,  Transports his poisoned shot ,  may miss our name And hit the woundless air . —O ,  come away ! 	so maybe slander ,  whose whisper covers the entire world As surely as the cannon hits its target and Delivers his poisoned shot ,  may miss our name ,  And not amount to anything at all . 
my soul is full of discord and dismay . 	my soul is full of confusion and sorrow . 
safely stow'd . 	safely hidden . 
hamlet ! 	hamlet ! 
lord Hamlet ! 	lord Hamlet ! 
what noise ? 	what’s that noise ? 
who calls on Hamlet ? 	who calls Hamlet ? 
o ,  here they come . 	here they come . 
what have you done ,  my lord ,  with the dead body ? 	what have you done ,  my lord ,  with the dead body ? 
compounded it with dust ,  whereto 'tis kin . 	mixed it with dust ,  to which it is related . 
tell us where 'tis ,  that we may take it thence And bear it to the chapel . 	tell us where it is ,  that we may take it from there ,  And carry it to the chapel . 
do not believe it . 	don’t believe it . 
believe what ? 	believe what ? 
that I can keep your counsel ,  and not mine own . 	that I can keep your advice ,  and not my own . 
take you me for a sponge ,  my lord ? 	you take me for a sponge ,  my lord ? 
ay ,  sir; that soaks up the King's countenance ,  his rewards ,  his authorities . 	yes ,  sir ,  that soaks up the King's face ,  his rewards ,  his authorities . 
but such officers do the King best service in the end . 	but such officers do the king best service in the end . 
he keeps them ,  like an ape ,  in the corner of his jaw; first mouth'd ,  to be last swallowed . 	he keeps them ,  like an ape ,  in the corner of his jaw ,  first to be tasted ,  and then at last swallowed . 
when he needs what you have glean'd ,  it is but squeezing you and ,  sponge ,  you shall be dry again . 	when he needs what you have found out ,  it is by squeezing you ,  and ,  sponge ,  you shall be dry again . 
I understand you not ,  my lord . 	I don’t understand you ,  my lord . 
I am glad of it . 	I am glad of it . 
a knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear . 	a clever speech is wasted on a stupid ear . 
my lord ,  you must tell us where the body is and go with us to the King . 	my lord ,  you must tell us where the body is and go with us to the king . 
the body is with the King ,  but the King is not with the body . 	the body is with the king ,  but the king is not with the body . 
the King is a thing— A thing ,  my lord ? 	the king is a thing ,  A thing ,  my lord ! 
of nothing . 	of nothing . 
bring me to him . 	bring me to him . 
hide fox ,  and all after . 	hide ,  fox ,  and show all later . 
I have sent to seek him ,  and to find the body . 	I have sent to find him and the body . 
how dangerous is it that this man goes loose ! 	how dangerous is it that this man goes loose ! 
yet must not we put the strong law on him . 	yet we must not put the strong law on him . 
he's loved of the distracted multitude ,  Who like not in their judgment ,  but their eyes; And where 'tis so ,  the offender's scourge is weigh'd ,  But never the offence . 	he's very popular with this country’s masses ,  Who like not in their minds ,  but with their eyes ,  And where it is so ,  the offender's punishment is important ,  but never the offense . 
to bear all smooth and even ,  This sudden sending him away must seem Deliberate pause . 	to deal with everything smoothly and evenly ,  this sudden sending him away must seem like a planned event . 
diseases desperate grown By desperate appliance are relieved ,  Or not at all . 	diseases grown desperate are best healed by desperate measures ,  Or not at all . 
where the dead body is bestow'd ,  my lord ,  We cannot get from him . 	we cannot get from him Where the dead body is hidden ,  my lord . 
but where is he ? 	but where is he ? 
without ,  my lord; guarded ,  to know your pleasure . 	outside ,  my lord ,  guarded ,  to know what you want . 
bring him before us . 	bring him before us . 
ho ,  Guildenstern ! 	ho ,  Guildenstern ! 
bring in my lord . 	bring in my lord . 
now ,  Hamlet ,  where's Polonius ? 	now ,  Hamlet ,  where's Polonius ? 
at supper . 	at supper . 
at supper ? 	at supper ! 
where ? 	where ? 
not where he eats ,  but where he is eaten . 	not where he eats ,  but where he is eaten . 
a certain convocation of politic worms are e'en at him . 	a certain group of educated worms are now biting him . 
your worm is your only emperor for diet . 	your worm is your only emperor for diet . 
we fat all creatures else to fat us ,  and we fat ourselves for maggots . 	we fatten up all other creatures to fatten us up ,  when we fatten ourselves for maggots . 
your fat king and your lean beggar is but variable service ,  two dishes ,  but to one table . 	your fat king and your lean beggar interchangeable ,  two dishes but for one table . 
that's the end . 	that's the end . 
alas ,  alas ! 	alas ,  alas ! 
a man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king ,  and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm . 	a man may fish with the worm that has eaten a king ,  and eat the fish that has fed on that worm . 
what dost thou mean by this ? 	what do you mean by this ? 
nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through the guts of a beggar . 	nothing but to show you how a king may progress through the guts of a beggar . 
where is Polonius ? 	where is Polonius ? 
In heaven . 	In heaven . 
send thither to see . 	send there to see . 
If your messenger find him not there ,  seek him i' the other place yourself . 	If your messenger can’t find him there ,  look for him in the other place yourself . 
but indeed ,  if you find him not within this month ,  you shall nose him as you go up the stair ,  into the lobby . 	but ,  indeed ,  if you don’t find him within this month ,  you will smell him as you go up the stairs into the lobby . 
go seek him there . 	go find him there . 
he will stay till you come . 	he will stay until you come . 
hamlet ,  this deed ,  for thine especial safety— Which we do tender as we dearly grieve For that which thou hast done—must send thee hence With fiery quickness . 	hamlet ,  for this deed ,  for your special safety ,  Which we do consider as we dearly grieve For what you’ve done ,  we must send you away With fiery quickness . 
for England ? 	for England ! 
ay ,  Hamlet . 	yes ,  Hamlet . 
good . 	good . 
so is it ,  if thou knew'st our purposes . 	so it is ,  if you knew our reasons . 
I see a cherub that sees them . 	I see an angel that sees them . 
but come ,  for England ! 	but ,  come ,  for England ! 
farewell ,  dear mother . 	goodbye ,  dear mother . 
thy loving father ,  Hamlet . 	your loving father ,  Hamlet . 
my mother ! 	my mother . 
father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is one flesh; and so ,  my mother . 	father and mother is man and wife ,  man and wife is one flesh ,  and so ,  my mother . 
come ,  for England ! 	come ,  for England ! 
delay it not; I'll have him hence tonight . 	I’ll have him away tonight . 
away ! 	away ! 
for every thing is seal'd and done That else leans on the affair . 	because everything is sealed and done That relies on this affair . 
pray you ,  make haste . 	I beg you ,  hurry . 
and ,  England ,  if my love thou hold'st at aught— As my great power thereof may give thee sense ,  Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red After the Danish sword ,  and thy free awe Pays homage to us—thou mayst not coldly set Our sovereign process ,  which imports at full ,  By letters congruing to that effect ,  The present death of Hamlet . 	and ,  England ,  if you hold my love at anything ,  As my great power may give you some sense ,  Since your scar still looks raw and red After the Danish sword ,  and your open fear Pays homage to us ,  you might not view Our sovereign process coldly ,  which gives you full power ,  By letters testifying to that effect ,  The present death of Hamlet . 
do it ,  England; For like the hectic in my blood he rages ,  And thou must cure me . 	do it ,  England ,  Because ,  he rages like the pace of my blood ,  And you must cure me . 
till I know 'tis done ,  Howe'er my haps ,  my joys were ne'er begun . 	until I know it is done ,  However great my luck ,  my joys can never begin . 
go ,  Captain ,  from me greet the Danish king . 	go ,  Captain ,  send my greetings to the Danish king . 
tell him that by his license Fortinbras Craves the conveyance of a promised march Over his kingdom . 	tell him that ,  with his permission ,  Fortinbras Desires to carry out a promised march Over his kingdom . 
you know the rendezvous . 	you know the meeting place . 
If that his Majesty would aught with us ,  We shall express our duty in his eye; And let him know so . 	If his majesty has anything for us to do ,  We shall express our duty in person ,  And let him know so . 
I will do't ,  my lord . 	I will do it ,  my lord . 
go softly on . 	go softly on . 
good sir ,  whose powers are these ? 	good sir ,  whose armies are these ? 
they are of Norway ,  sir . 	they are from Norway ,  sir . 
how purposed ,  sir ,  I pray you ? 	for what purpose ,  sir ,  I beg you ? 
against some part of Poland . 	against some part of Poland . 
who commands them ,  sir ? 	who commands them ,  sir ? 
the nephew to old Norway ,  Fortinbras . 	the nephew to old Norway ,  Fortinbras . 
goes it against the main of Poland ,  sir ,  Or for some frontier ? 	does it go against the main part of Poland ,  sir ,  Or for some frontier ? 
truly to speak ,  and with no addition ,  We go to gain a little patch of ground That hath in it no profit but the name . 	to speak honestly ,  and with no addition to the facts ,  We go to gain a little patch of ground That’s not worth anything except its name . 
to pay five ducats ,  five ,  I would not farm it; Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole A ranker rate ,  should it be sold in fee . 	to pay five dollars ,  five ,  I wouldn’t farm it ,  And it won’t yield either to Norway or the Poles A worse rate if it should it be sold in payment . 
why ,  then the Polack never will defend it . 	why ,  then the Poles never will defend it . 
yes ,  it is already garrison'd . 	yes ,  it already has garrisons . 
two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats Will not debate the question of this straw . 	two thousand souls and twenty thousand dollars Will not settle the question of who owns this worthless land . 
this is the imposthume of much wealth and peace ,  That inward breaks ,  and shows no cause without Why the man dies . 	this is the abscess of much wealth and peace ,  That breaks inward ,  and shows no damage until The man dies . 
I humbly thank you ,  sir . 	I humbly thank you ,  sir . 
god be wi' you ,  sir . 	god be with you ,  sir . 
will't please you go ,  my lord ? 	will you please go ,  my lord ? 
I'll be with you straight . 	I’ll be with you right away . 
go a little before . 	walk a little before me . 
how all occasions do inform against me And spur my dull revenge ! 	how every event works against me To spur my dull revenge ! 
what is a man ,  If his chief good and market of his time Be but to sleep and feed ? 	what is a man ,  If his chief good and use of his time Is only to sleep and eat ? 
a beast ,  no more . 	a beast ,  no more . 
sure ,  he that made us with such large discourse ,  Looking before and after ,  gave us not That capability and godlike reason To fust in us unused . 	surely He that made us with such large capacity ,  Looking before and after ,  didn’t give us That capability and godlike reason To go stale in us ,  unused . 
now ,  whether it be Bestial oblivion ,  or some craven scruple Of thinking too precisely on the event— A thought which ,  quarter'd ,  hath but one part wisdom And ever three parts coward—I do not know Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do , ' Sith I have cause ,  and will ,  and strength ,  and means To do't . 	now ,  where it is Beastly forgetfulness ,  or some defeated principle Of thinking too much on the event ,  A thought which ,  cut in quarters ,  has but one part wisdom And always three parts coward ,  I don’t know Why I am still live to say  “ This thing's to do ,   “  Since I have cause ,  and will ,  and strength ,  and means To do it . 
examples gross as earth exhort me . 	examples ,  as obvious as dirt ,  urge me . 
witness this army ,  of such mass and charge ,  Led by a delicate and tender prince ,  Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd ,  Makes mouths at the invisible event ,  Exposing what is mortal and unsure To all that fortune ,  death ,  and danger dare ,  Even for an eggshell . 	look at this army ,  of such size and power ,  Led by a delicate and tender prince ,  Whose spirit ,  with divine ambition puffed up ,  Makes faces at the invisible event ,  Exposing what is mortal and unsure To all that luck ,  death ,  and danger dare to do ,  Even for an eggshell . 
rightly to be great Is not to stir without great argument ,  But greatly to find quarrel in a straw When honour's at the stake . 	rightly to be great Is not to move without great argument ,  But to find quarrel greatly in worthless land When honor’s at stake . 
how stand I then ,  That have a father kill'd ,  a mother stain'd ,  Excitements of my reason and my blood ,  And let all sleep ,  while to my shame I see The imminent death of twenty thousand men That for a fantasy and trick of fame Go to their graves like beds ,  fight for a plot Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause ,  Which is not tomb enough and continent To hide the slain ? 	how do I stand ,  then ,  That have a father killed ,  a mother stained ,  Aggravation of my reason and my blood ,  And let all sleep while ,  to my shame ,  I see The imminent death of twenty thousand men That ,  for a whim and trick of fame ,  Go to their graves like going to bed ,  fight for a plot On which the numbers don’t have room to fight for the Cause ,  which is not tomb enough and big enough To hide the slain ? 
o ,  from this time forth ,  My thoughts be bloody ,  or be nothing worth ! 	o ,  from this time forth ,  My thoughts be bloody ,  or be worth nothing ! 
I will not speak with her . 	I will not speak with her . 
she is importunate ,  indeed distract . 	she is unfortunate ,  indeed deranged . 
her mood will needs be pitied . 	her mood must be pitied . 
what would she have ? 	what does she need ? 
she speaks much of her father; says she hears There's tricks i' the world ,  and hems ,  and beats her heart; Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt ,  That carry but half sense . 	she speaks a lot about her father ,  she says she hears There are tricks in the world ,  and coughs ,  and beats her chest ,  Kicks enviously at nothing ,  says things in doubt That only make half sense . 
her speech is nothing ,  Yet the unshaped use of it doth move The hearers to collection; they aim at it ,  And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts; Which ,  as her winks and nods and gestures yield them ,  Indeed would make one think there might be thought ,  Though nothing sure ,  yet much unhappily . 	her speech is nothing ,  Yet the random use of it moves The listeners to collect them ,  they aim at making sense of It ,  and mix her words up fit to their own ideas ,  Which ,  as her winks and nods and gestures as she Speaks ,  would indeed make someone think there might Be clear ,  though nothing for sure ,  yet very unhappily . 
twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew Dangerous conjectures in ill - breeding minds . 	It would be good she were spoken with ,  because she May scatter dangerous ideas in rude minds . 
let her come in . 	let her come in . 
to my sick soul ,  as sin's true nature is ,  Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss . 	to my sick soul ,  such as sin's true nature is ,  Each new thing seems to be the prelude to some great harm . 
so full of artless jealousy is guilt It spills itself in fearing to be spilt . 	guilt is so full of artless jealousy ,  that It spills itself in fearing to be spilled . 
where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark ? 	where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark ? 
how should I your true love know From another one ? 	how should I know your true love From another one ? 
by his cockle hat and staff And his sandal shoon . 	by his whimsical bat and his staff And his sandal shoes . 
alas ,  sweet lady ,  what imports this song ? 	alas ,  sweet lady ,  what does this song mean ? 
say you ? 	what did you say ? 
nay ,  pray you ,  mark . 	no ,  I beg you ,  listen . 
he is dead and gone ,  lady ,  He is dead and gone; At his head a grass - green turf ,  At his heels a stone . 	he is dead and gone ,  lady ,  He is dead and gone ,  At his head a grass green turf ,  At his heels a stone . 
nay ,  but Ophelia— Pray you ,  mark . 	no ,  but Ophelia I beg you ,  listen . 
white his shroud as the mountain snow— Alas ,  look here ,  my lord ! 	his shroud is as white as the mountain snow ,  Alas ,  look here ,  my lord ! 
larded all with sweet flowers; Which bewept to the grave did not go With true - love showers . 	all covered with sweet flowers ,  Which drowned in tears went to the grave With showers of true love . 
how do you ,  pretty lady ? 	how do you ,  pretty lady ? 
well ,  God 'eild you ! 	well ,  God protect you ! 
they say the owl was a baker's daughter . 	they say the owl was a baker's daughter . 
lord ,  we know what we are ,  but know not what we may be . 	lord ,  we know what we are ,  but don’t know what we may be . 
god be at your table ! 	god be at your table ! 
conceit upon her father . 	thinking on her father . 
then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es And dupp'd the chamber door ,  Let in the maid ,  that out a maid Never departed more . 	then up he rose and put on his clothes ,  And opened the chamber door ,  Let in the maid that rejected a maid and Never left again . 
pretty Ophelia ! 	pretty Ophelia ! 
Indeed ,  without an oath ,  I'll make an end on't ! 	Indeed ,  la ,  without an oath ,  I’ll make an end on it . 
by Gis and by Saint Charity ,  Alack ,  and fie for shame ! 	by God and by Saint Charity ,  Pity ,  and for shame ,  for shame ! 
young men will do't if they come to't By Cock ,  they are to blame . 	young men will do it if they come to it ,  By God ,  they are to blame . 
how long hath she been thus ? 	how long has she been like this ? 
I hope all will be well . 	I hope all will be well . 
we must be patient . 	we must be patient . 
but I can -  not choose but weep ,  to think they would lay him i' the cold ground . 	but I cannot choose but weep ,  to think they would lay him in the cold ground . 
my brother shall know of it . 	my brother shall know of it . 
and so I thank you for your good counsel . 	and so I thank you for your good counsel . 
come ,  my coach ! 	come ,  my coach ! 
follow her close; give her good watch ,  I pray you . 	follow her closely ,  watch her well ,  I beg you . 
o ,  this is the poison of deep grief; it springs All from her father's death . 	o ,  this is the poison of deep grief ,  it all springs From her father's death . 
o my dear Gertrude ,  this ,  Like to a murdering - piece ,  in many places Gives me superfluous death . 	o my dear Gertrude ,  this worry ,  Compared to a murdering piece ,  gives me more than Enough death in many places . 
alack ,  what noise is this ? 	for pity’s sake ,  what’s this noise ? 
where are my Switzers ? 	where are my Swiss guards ? 
let them guard the door . 	let them guard the door . 
what is the matter ? 	what is the matter ? 
save yourself ,  my lord . 	save yourself ,  my lord . 
the ocean ,  overpeering of his list ,  Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste Than young Laertes ,  in a riotous head ,  O'erbears your offices . 	the ocean ,  exceeding of his borders ,  Doesn’t eat the flatlands with more impatient speed Than young Laertes ,  heading a riot ,  Takes over your offices . 
the rabble call him lord; And ,  as the world were now but to begin ,  Antiquity forgot ,  custom not known— The ratifiers and props of every word— They cry 'Choose we ! 	the crowd calls him lord ,  And ,  as the world were just beginning now ,  Old history forgotten ,  customs not known ,  They certify and prop up every word ,  They cry  “ We choose ! 
o ,  this is counter ,  you false Danish dogs ! 	o ,  this is rebellion ,  you false Danish dogs ! 
the doors are broke . 	the doors are broken . 
where is this King ? 	where is this king ? 
sirs ,  stand you all without . 	sirs ,  you all wait outside . 
no ,  let's come in ! 	no ,  let's come in . 
I pray you give me leave . 	I beg you ,  leave me alone . 
we will ,  we will ! 	we will ,  we will . 
I thank you . 	I thank you . 
keep the door . 	guard the door . 
o thou vile king ,  Give me my father ! 	o you vile king ,  Give me my father ! 
calmly ,  good Laertes . 	calmly ,  good Laertes . 
that drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard; Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot Even here ,  between the chaste unsmirched brows Of my true mother . 	that drop of blood that's in control says I’m a bastard ,  Cries my father’s wife was unfaithful ,  brands the harlot Even here ,  between the chaste unmarked brows Of my true mother . 
what is the cause ,  Laertes ,  That thy rebellion looks so giant - like ? 	what is the cause ,  Laertes ,  That your rebellion looks so huge ? 
there's such divinity doth hedge a king That treason can but peep to what it would ,  Acts little of his will . 	there's such divinity that surrounds a king ,  That treason can only peep to what it would do ,  Acts little by his will . 
tell me ,  Laertes ,  Why thou art thus incensed . 	tell me ,  Laertes ,  Why are you so angry like this ? 
let him go ,  Gertrude . 	let him go ,  Gertrude . 
speak ,  man . 	speak ,  man . 
where is my father ? 	where is my father ? 
dead . 	dead . 
but not by him ! 	but he didn’t do it . 
how came he dead ? 	why is he dead ? 
vows ,  to the blackest devil ! 	vows ,  to the blackest devil ! 
conscience and grace ,  to the profoundest pit ! 	conscience and grace ,  to the deepest pit ! 
I dare damnation . 	I dare damnation . 
who shall stay you ? 	who shall prevent you from it ? 
my will ,  not all the world ! 	my will alone ,  nothing else in the world . 
and for my means ,  I'll husband them so well ,  They shall go far with little . 	and I’ll use my methods so well ,  That they shall go far with little effort . 
good Laertes ,  If you desire to know the certainty Of your dear father's death ,  is't writ in your revenge That ,  swoopstake ,  you will draw both friend and foe ,  Winner and loser ? 	good Laertes ,  If you desire to know the circumstances Of your dear father's death ,  is it written in your revenge That ,  in the gambling ,  you will draw both friend and foe ,  winner and loser ? 
none but his enemies . 	no one but his enemies . 
will you know them then ? 	will you know them then ? 
to his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms And ,  like the kind life - rendering pelican ,  Repast them with my blood . 	I’ll open my arms wide like this to his good friends ,  And ,  like the pelican of the old fables ,  Feed them with my own blood . 
why ,  now you speak Like a good child and a true gentleman . 	why ,  now you speak Like a good child and a true gentleman . 
that I am guiltless of your father's death ,  And am most sensibly in grief for it ,  It shall as level to your judgment pierce As day does to your eye . 	It shall penetrate your understanding That I am innocent of your father's death ,  And am most sincerely in grief for it ,  As day penetrates your eye . 
let her come in . 	let her come in . 
how now ? 	how now ! 
what noise is that ? 	what’s that noise ? 
o heat ,  dry up my brains ! 	o heat ,  dry up my brains ! 
tears seven times salt ,  Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye ! 	tears with seven times the Salt ,  burn out the sight and truth of my eyes ! 
dear maid ,  kind sister ,  sweet Ophelia ! 	dear maid ,  kind sister ,  sweet Ophelia ! 
o heavens ! 	o heavens ! 
is't possible a young maid's wits Should be as mortal as an old man's life ? 	Is it possible a young maid's sanity Should be die as does an old man ? 
nature is fine in love ,  and where 'tis fine ,  It sends some precious instance of itself After the thing it loves . 	nature is short in love ,  and where it is short ,  It sends some precious moment of itself Close to the thing it loves . 
they bore him barefac'd on the bier (Hey non nony ,  nony ,  hey nony) And on his grave rain'd many a tear . 	they bore him barefaced on the bier Hey no nonny ,  nonny ,  hey nonny And on his grave rained many a tear . 
fare you well ,  my dove ! 	fare you well ,  my dove ! 
hadst thou thy wits ,  and didst persuade revenge ,  It could not move thus . 	had you your sanity ,  and you persuaded me to revenge ,  It couldn’t move like this . 
It is the false stew -  ard ,  that stole his master's daughter . 	It is the false servant ,  that stole his master's daughter . 
this nothing's more than matter . 	this  “ nothing ”  is more than just a story . 
there's fennel for you ,  and columbines . 	there's fennel for you ,  and columbines . 
there's rue for you ,  and here's some for me . 	there's rue for you ,  and here's some for me . 
there's a daisy . 	there's a daisy . 
I would give you some violets ,  but they with -  er'd all when my father died . 	I would give you some violets ,  but they withered all when my father died . 
and will he not come again ? 	and will he not come again ? 
and will he not come again ? 	and will he not come again ? 
no ,  no ,  he is dead; Go to thy deathbed; He never will come again . 	no ,  no ,  he is dead ,  Go to your death - bed ,  He never will come again . 
his beard was as white as snow ,  All flaxen was his poll . 	his beard was as white as snow ,  All white was his hair . 
he is gone ,  he is gone ,  And we cast away moan . 	he is gone ,  he is gone ,  And we go away crying . 
god 'a'mercy on his soul ! 	god have mercy on his soul ! 
and of all Christian souls ,  I pray God . 	and of all Christian souls ,  I pray God . 
god be wi' you . 	god be with you . 
do you see this ,  O God ? 	do you see this ,  O God ? 
laertes ,  I must commune with your grief ,  Or you deny me right . 	laertes ,  I must share your grief ,  Or you deny me my rights . 
go but apart ,  Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will ,  And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me . 	step aside ,  Choose whichever of your wisest friends you want ,  And they shall hear and judge between you and me . 
If by direct or by collateral hand They find us touch'd ,  we will our kingdom give ,  Our crown ,  our life ,  and all that we call ours ,  To you in satisfaction; but if not ,  Be you content to lend your patience to us ,  And we shall jointly labour with your soul To give it due content . 	If they find that we killed your father or had him killed ,  We will surrender our kingdom ,  Our crown ,  our life ,  and all that we call ours ,  To you in satisfaction ,  but if not ,  You must be patient with us ,  And we shall work together with your soul To give it just compensation . 
his means of death ,  his obscure burial— No trophy ,  sword ,  nor hatchment o'er his bones ,  No noble rite nor formal ostentation ,  Cry to be heard ,  as 'twere from heaven to earth ,  That I must call't in question . 	I agree ,  His means of death ,  his obscure burial ,  No trophy ,  sword ,  no coat of arms over his bones No noble rites or state funeral ,  Cry to be heard ,  from heaven to earth as it were ,  That I must call it into question . 
so you shall; And where the offence is let the great axe fall . 	and so you shall ,  And wherever the guilt is ,  that’s where the punishment will be . 
I pray you go with me . 	I beg you ,  go with me . 
what are they that would speak with me ? 	who wants to speak with me ? 
seafaring men ,  sir . 	sailors ,  sir . 
they say they have letters for you . 	they say they have letters for you . 
let them come in . 	let them in . 
I do not know from what part of the world I should be greeted ,  if not from Lord Hamlet . 	I don’t know from what part of the world I should be contacted ,  if not by Lord Hamlet . 
god bless you ,  sir . 	god bless you ,  sir . 
let him bless thee too . 	let him bless you too . 
he shall ,  sir ,  an't please him . 	he shall ,  sir ,  if it pleases him . 
horatio ,  when thou shalt have overlook'd this ,  give these fellows some means to the King . 	horatio ,  when you read this ,  give these fellows some way to talk to the king . 
they have letters for him . 	they have letters for him . 
ere we were two days old at sea ,  a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us chase . 	before we were even at sea for two days ,  a very nasty looking pirate chased us . 
finding ourselves too slow of sail ,  we put on a compelled valour ,  and in the grapple I boarded them . 	finding ourselves sailing too slow ,  we put up a great fight ,  and ,  in the skirmish ,  I boarded them . 
on the instant they got clear of our ship; so I alone became their prisoner . 	just then ,  they sailed away from our ship ,  so only I became their prisoner . 
let the King have the letters I have sent ,  and repair thou to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death . 	let the king have the letters I have sent ,  and come to see me with as much haste as you would fly death . 
I have words to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of the matter . 	I have words to speak into your ear will make you speechless ,  but are they much too light for the heart of the matter . 
these good fellows will bring thee where I am . 	these good fellows will bring you to where I am . 
rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course for England . 	rosencrantz and Guildenstern are still going to England . 
of them I have much to tell thee . 	I have much to tell you about them . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
he that thou knowest thine ,  Hamlet . 	he that you knows you ,  HAMLET . 
come ,  I will give you way for these your letters ,  And do't the speedier that you may direct me To him from whom you brought them . 	then you can direct me To him you delivered them for . 
now must your conscience my acquittance seal ,  And you must put me in your heart for friend ,  Sith you have heard ,  and with a knowing ear ,  That he which hath your noble father slain Pursued my life . 	now you must see that I am not guilty ,  And you must put me in your heart as a friend ,  Since you have heard ,  and with a knowing ear ,  That man who killed your noble father Wanted to kill me . 
It well appears . 	It seems to be the truth . 
but tell me Why you proceeded not against these feats So crimeful and so capital in nature ,  As by your safety ,  wisdom ,  all things else ,  You mainly were stirr'd up . 	but tell me Why didn’t you take action against these things ,  So full of crime and punishable by death ,  As you mainly were upset By concern for your safety ,  wisdom ,  if nothing else . 
o ,  for two special reasons ,  Which may to you ,  perhaps ,  seem much unsinew'd ,  But yet to me they are strong . 	o ,  for two special reasons ,  Which may to you ,  perhaps ,  seem a bit cowardly ,  But yet to me they are strong . 
the Queen his mother Lives almost by his looks; and for myself— My virtue or my plague ,  be it either which— She's so conjunctive to my life and soul That ,  as the star moves not but in his sphere ,  I could not but by her . 	the queen his mother Lives almost by his looks ,  and for myself ,  Whether it’s my virtue or my plague ,  She's so necessary to my life and soul ,  That ,  as the star moves only in his orbit ,  I couldn’t do anything without her say - so . 
the other motive Why to a public count I might not go Is the great love the general gender bear him ,  Who ,  dipping all his faults in their affection ,  Would ,  like the spring that turneth wood to stone ,  Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows ,  Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind ,  Would have reverted to my bow again ,  And not where I had aim'd them . 	the other motive ,  why I couldn’t go to a public court ,  Is the great love the people of this country have for him ,  Who ,  dipping all his faults in their affection ,  Would ,  like the spring that turn wood to stone ,  Convert his crimes to graces ,  so that my actions ,  Not at all popular with the masses ,  Would have reflected badly on me ,  And not be taken as I intended them . 
and so have I a noble father lost; A sister driven into desperate terms ,  Whose worth ,  if praises may go back again ,  Stood challenger on mount of all the age For her perfections . 	and so I have lost a noble father ,  A sister driven into insanity ,  Whose worth ,  if praises may go back again ,  Stood as a challenger to the most beautiful woman of all Time for her perfections . 
but my revenge will come . 	but my revenge will come . 
break not your sleeps for that . 	don’t lose any sleep over it . 
you must not think That we are made of stuff so flat and dull That we can let our beard be shook with danger ,  And think it pastime . 	you mustn’t think That we are made of stuff so flat and dull That we can let our power be shaken with danger ,  And think it unimportant . 
you shortly shall hear more . 	you will soon hear more . 
what news ? 	what news ? 
letters ,  my lord ,  from Hamlet . 	letters ,  my lord ,  from Hamlet . 
this to your Majesty; this to the Queen . 	this one to your majesty ,  this one to the queen . 
from Hamlet ? 	from Hamlet ! 
who brought them ? 	who brought them ? 
sailors ,  my lord ,  they say; I saw them not . 	sailors ,  my lord ,  they say ,  I didn’t see them . 
laertes ,  you shall hear them . 	laertes ,  you shall hear them . 
leave us . 	leave us alone . 
high and mighty ,  you shall know I am set naked on your kingdom . 	high and mighty ,  You shall know I am set naked on your kingdom . 
what should this mean ? 	what does this mean ? 
are all the rest come back ? 	are all the rest returning ? 
or is it some abuse ,  and no such thing ? 	or is it some trick and no such thing ? 
know you the hand ? 	do you recognize the writing ? 
tis Hamlet's character . 	It’s Hamlet's handwriting . 
I'm lost in it ,  my lord . 	I have no idea ,  my lord . 
but let him come . 	but let him come . 
how otherwise ? — Will you be ruled by me ? 	how can it be otherwise ? 
ay my lord ,  So you will not o'errule me to a peace . 	yes ,  my lord ,  Just as long as you don’t ask me to forget about it . 
to thine own peace . 	only to your own satisfaction . 
It falls right . 	It’s falling into place . 
you have been talk'd of since your travel much ,  And that in Hamlet's hearing ,  for a quality Wherein they say you shine . 	you have been talked about since your travel so much ,  For a quality where ,  they say ,  you really shine . 
your sum of parts Did not together pluck such envy from him As did that one; and that ,  in my regard ,  Of the unworthiest siege . 	all your parts together Didn’t arouse such jealousy in him As did that one ,  and that ,  in my regard ,  Is his weak spot . 
what part is that ,  my lord ? 	what part is that ,  my lord ? 
a very ribbon in the cap of youth ,  Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes The light and careless livery that it wears Than settled age his sables and his weeds ,  Importing health and graveness . 	a very ribbon in the cap of youth ,  But necessary too ,  for youth doesn’t look less well in The fun and reckless clothes that it wears Than old age settles for his black furs and woolens ,  Showing health and seriousness . 
two months since Here was a gentleman of Normandy— I have seen myself ,  and served against ,  the French ,  And they can well on horseback; but this gallant Had witchcraft in't . 	two months ago ,  There was a gentleman from Normandy here ,  I’ve seen myself ,  and served against the French ,  And they can do well on horseback ,  but this gallant Had witchcraft in it . 
he grew unto his seat ,  And to such wondrous doing brought his horse As had he been incorpsed and demi - natured With the brave beast . 	he grew into his seat ,  And had his horse do such wonderful things ,  As if he had been absorbed into the horse’s body With the brave beast . 
so far he topp'd my thought That I ,  in forgery of shapes and tricks ,  Come short of what he did . 	he so impressed me ,  That I ,  through lies and tricks ,  Didn’t waste time in finding out what he did . 
a Norman was't ? 	a Norman ,  was it ? 
a Norman . 	a Norman . 
upon my life ,  Lamord . 	I swear ,  Lamond . 
the very same . 	the very same . 
I know him well . 	I know him well . 
he is the brooch indeed And gem of all the nation . 	he is the jewel ,  indeed ,  And gem of the whole nation . 
sir ,  this report of his Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy That he could nothing do but wish and beg Your sudden coming o'er to play with you . 	sir ,  this report of his Poisoned Hamlet with envy That he couldn’t do anything but wish and beg Your sudden coming over her to play with him . 
laertes ,  was your father dear to you ? 	laertes ,  was your father dear to you ? 
not that I think you did not love your father ,  But that I know love is begun by time ,  And that I see ,  in passages of proof ,  Time qualifies the spark and fire of it . 	not that I think you didn’t love your father ,  But because I know love is begun by time ,  And I see ,  in the ways of love ,  That time dampens the spark and fire of it . 
there lives within the very flame of love A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it; And nothing is at a like goodness still; For goodness ,  growing to a pleurisy ,  Dies in his own too much . 	within the very flame of love ,  there lives A kind of wick or snuff that will put it out ,  And nothing is worse than goodness staying still ,  For goodness ,  growing to an infectious flu ,  Dies in his own too much . 
that we would do ,  We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes ,  And hath abatements and delays as many As there are tongues ,  are hands ,  are accidents; And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh ,  That hurts by easing . 	what we want to do ,  We should do when we would ,  for this 'would' changes ,  And has stoppages and delays as many As there are voices ,  hands ,  accidents ,  And then this 'should' is like the sigh of a spendthrift ,  That hurts by easing up . 
but to the quick o' the ulcer ! 	but to the heart of the matter . 
hamlet comes back . 	hamlet comes back . 
what would you undertake To show yourself your father's son in deed More than in words ? 	what would you do To show yourself your father's son in deed More than in words ? 
to cut his throat i' the church . 	to cut his throat in the church . 
no place indeed should murder sanctuarize; Revenge should have no bounds . 	murder ,  indeed ,  should not be a church activity ,  because Then revenge should have no bounds . 
hamlet return'd shall know you are come home . 	when Hamlet returns ,  he shall know you’re Home . 
we'll put on those shall praise your excellence And set a double varnish on the fame The Frenchman gave you ,  bring you in fine together And wager on your heads . 	we'll start rumors that praise your excellence And exaggerate the fame The Frenchman gave you ,  bring you together in the end ,  And place bets on your fight . 
he ,  being remiss ,  Most generous and free from all contriving ,  Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease ,  Or with a little shuffling ,  you may choose A sword unbated ,  and in a pass of practice ,  Requite him for your father . 	he ,  being weak ,  Most generous ,  and free from all trickery ,  Will not think about swords ,  so that easily ,  Or with a little mix up ,  you may choose A sword that’s not poisoned ,  and ,  in a pass during Practice ,  kill him in revenge for your father . 
I will do't ! 	I’ll do it . 
and for that purpose I'll anoint my sword . 	and for that purpose ,  I’ll poison my sword . 
I bought an unction of a mountebank ,  So mortal that but dip a knife in it ,  Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare ,  Collected from all simples that have virtue Under the moon ,  can save the thing from death This is but scratch'd withal . 	I bought an oil of a mountebank ,  So mortal that ,  only dip a knife in it ,  Where it draws blood ,  no super - potion so rare ,  Collected from all antidotes under the moon That have always worked ,  can save the thing from death And this is only with a scratch . 
I'll touch my point With this contagion ,  that ,  if I gall him slightly ,  It may be death . 	I’ll touch the point of my sword with this poison so that ,  if I touch him slightly ,  It will kill him . 
therefore this project Should have a back or second ,  that might hold If this did blast in proof . 	therefore this project should have a plan B or C ,  that might hold if this first one failed . 
soft ! 	hang on ! 
let me see . 	let me think . 
we'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings— I ha't ! 	we'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings ,  I have it ! 
when in your motion you are hot and dry— As make your bouts more violent to that end— And that he calls for drink ,  I'll have prepared him A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping ,  If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck ,  Our purpose may hold there . 	while you’re moving around and you are hot and dry ,  Since you’ll make your bouts more violent to that purpose ,  and he calls for drink ,  I’ll have prepared a Goblet for him for that purpose ,  so that even only sipping ,  If he escapes your stick of venom by luck ,  We can be successful this way . 
how now ,  sweet Queen ? 	what now ,  sweet queen ! 
one woe doth tread upon another's heel ,  So fast they follow . 	one sorrow walks on the heels of another ,  Following too fast . 
your sister's drown'd ,  Laertes . 	your sister's drowned ,  Laertes . 
drown'd ! 	drowned ! 
o ,  where ? 	o ,  where ? 
alas ,  then she is drown'd ? 	alas ,  then she is drowned ? 
drown'd ,  drown'd . 	drowned ,  drowned . 
too much of water hast thou ,  poor Ophelia ,  And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet It is our trick; nature her custom holds ,  Let shame say what it will . 	you had too much water ,  poor Ophelia ,  And therefore I’ll hold back my tears ,  but It is still our trick ,  nature holds her habits ,  Let shame say what it will . 
when these are gone ,  The woman will be out . 	when these tears are gone ,  Woman will be extinct . 
adieu ,  my lord . 	farewell ,  my lord . 
I have a speech of fire ,  that fain would blaze But that this folly drowns it . 	I have a rumor of fire ,  that I would gladly spread ,  Before this news puts the fire out . 
let's follow ,  Gertrude . 	let's follow him ,  Gertrude ,  . 
how much I had to do to calm his rage . 	I had all I could do to calm his anger ! 
now fear I this will give it start again; Therefore let's follow . 	now I fear this will make it start all over again ,  Therefore let's follow him . 
Is she to be buried in Christian burial that wilfully seeks her own salvation ? 	Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully seeks her own salvation ? 
I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight . 	I tell you she is ,  and therefore make her grave straight . 
the crowner hath sat on her ,  and finds it Christian burial . 	the coroner has decided ,  and finds it Christian burial . 
how can that be ,  unless she drown'd herself in her own defence ? 	how can that be ,  unless she drowned herself in her own defense ? 
why ,  'tis found so . 	why ,  that’s the coroner’s finding . 
It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else . 	It must be self - offense . 
for se offendendo; it cannot be else . 	It can’t be anything else . 
here lies the water—good . 	here lies the water ,  good . 
here stands the man—good . 	here stands the man ,  good . 
but is this law ? 	but is this law ? 
ay ,  marry ,  is't; crowner's quest law . 	yes ,  by Mary ,  it’s the coroner’s inquest law . 
will you ha' the truth on't ? 	will you know the truth about it ? 
If this had not been a gentlewoman ,  she should have been buried out o' Christian burial . 	If this hadn’t been a gentlewoman ,  she should have been buried without a Christian burial . 
why ,  there thou say'st ! 	why ,  there you’ve said it . 
and the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves more than their even Christian . 	and the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves more than another Christian . 
come ,  my spade ! 	come ,  my spade . 
there is no ancient gentlemen but gardeners ,  ditchers ,  and grave - makers . 	there are no old gentlemen but gardeners ,  ditchers ,  and grave - makers . 
they hold up Adam's profession . 	they hold up Adam's profession . 
was he a gentleman ? 	was he a gentleman ? 
a was the first that ever bore arms . 	he was the first that ever bore arms . 
why ,  he had none . 	why ,  he had none . 
what ,  art a heathen ? 	what ,  are you a pagan ? 
how dost thou under -  stand the Scripture ? 	how do you understand the Scripture ? 
the Scripture says Adam digged . 	the Scripture says Adam digged . 
could he dig without arms ? 	could he dig without arms ? 
I'll put another question to thee . 	I’ll put another question to you . 
the gallows - maker; for that frame outlives a thousand tenants . 	the gallows - maker ,  for that frame outlives a thousand tenants . 
I like thy wit well ,  in good faith . 	I like your joke ,  I swear . 
to't again ,  come ! 	do it again ,  come on . 
who builds stronger than a mason ,  a ship -  wright ,  or a carpenter ? 	who builds stronger than a mason ,  a shipbuilder ,  or a carpenter ? 
ay ,  tell me that ,  and unyoke . 	yes ,  tell me that ,  and stop my guessing . 
marry ,  now I can tell ! 	by Mary ,  now I can tell . 
to't . 	do it . 
mass ,  I cannot tell . 	mass ,  I cannot tell . 
go ,  get thee in Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of liquor . 	go ,  get you to Johann ,  bring me a mug of whiskey . 
In youth when I did love ,  did love ,  Methought it was very sweet; To contract—O—the time for—a—my behove ,  O ,  methought there—a—was nothing—a meet . 	In youth when I did love ,  did love ,  I thought it was very sweet ,  To contract ,  O ,  the time for ,  ah ,  my reason ,  O ,  I thought there was nothing meet . 
has this fellow no feeling of his business ,  that he sings at grave - making ? 	has this fellow no feeling of his business ,  that he sings at grave - digging ? 
custom hath made it in him a property of easiness . 	habit has made it a property of easiness in him . 
tis e'en so . 	that’s true . 
the hand of little employment hath the daintier sense . 	the one that doesn’t work has the more delicate sense . 
but age with his stealing steps Hath clawed me in his clutch ,  And hath shipped me intil the land ,  As if I had never been such . 	but age ,  with his stealing steps ,  Has clawed me in his clutch ,  And has shipped me until the land ,  As if I had never been such . 
that skull had a tongue in it ,  and could sing once . 	that skull had a tongue in it ,  and could sing once . 
how the knave jowls it to the ground ,  as if 'were Cain's jawbone ,  that did the first murder ! 	how the man jowls it to the ground ,  as if it were Cain's jawbone ,  that did the first murder ! 
this might be the pate of a politician ,  which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God ,  might it not ? 	this might be the head of a politician ,  which this ass now reaches over one that would go around God ,  might it not ? 
It might ,  my lord . 	It might ,  my lord . 
or of a courtier ,  which could say 'Good morrow ,  sweet lord ! 	or of a courtier ,  which could say 'Good morrow ,  sweet lord ! 
how dost thou ,  sweet lord ? 	how are you ,  good lord ? 
this might be my Lord Such - a -  one ,  that praised my Lord Such - a - one's horse when he meant to beg it ,  might it not ? 	this might be my lord so - and - so ,  that praised my lord such - and - such's horse when he meant to ask for it ,  might it not ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
why ,  e'en so ! 	why ,  even so . 
and now my Lady Worm's ,  chapless ,  and knock'd about the mazard with a sexton's spade . 	and now my Lady Worm's ,  no jaw and knocked about the face with a sexton's spade . 
here's fine revolution ,  and we had the trick to see't . 	here's fine turnaround ,  if we were able to see it . 
did these bones cost no more the breeding ,  but to play at loggets with 'em ? 	did these bones cost no more the making of them but to play at games with them ? 
mine ache to think on't . 	mine ache to think about it . 
a pickaxe and a spade ,  a spade ,  For and a shrouding sheet; O ,  a Pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is meet . 	a pickaxe and a spade ,  a spade ,  For and a shrouding sheet ,  Oe a pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is ptoper . 
there's another . 	there's another . 
why may not that be the skull of a lawyer ? 	why can’t that be the skull of a lawyer ? 
where be his quiddities now ,  his quillets ,  his cases ,  his tenures ,  and his tricks ? 	where are his arguments now ,  his pens ,  his cases ,  his subpoenas ,  and his tricks ? 
why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the sconce with a dirty shovel ,  and will not tell him of his action of battery ? 	why does he allow this rude fellow to knock him about the head now ,  with a dirty shovel ,  and will not tell him why he’s being hit ? 
hum ! 	hum ! 
this fellow might be in's time a great buyer of land ,  with his statutes ,  his recognizances ,  his fines ,  his double vouchers ,  his recoveries . 	this fellow might have been a great buyer of land in his time ,  with his statutes ,  his emblems ,  his fine art ,  his double billing ,  his house seizures ? 
Is this the fine of his fines ,  and the recovery of his recoveries ,  to have his fine pate full of fine dirt ? 	Is this the finest of his fine art ,  and the seizure of his house seizures ,  to have his fine pate full of fine dirt ? 
will his vouchers vouch him no more of his purchases ,  and double ones too ,  than the length and breadth of a pair of indentures ? 	will his billing bill him no more for his purchases ,  and double ones too ,  than the length and breadth of a pair of property liens ? 
the very conveyances of his lands will scarcely lie in this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more ,  ha ? 	the very transfers of his lands will scarcely lie in this box ,  and must the inheritor himself have no more ,  huh ? 
not a jot more ,  my lord . 	not a jot more ,  my lord . 
Is not parchment made of sheepskins ? 	Isn’t parchment made of sheep - skins ? 
ay ,  my lord ,  And of calveskins too . 	yes ,  my lord ,  And of calf - skins too . 
they are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that . 	they are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that . 
I will speak to this fellow . 	I will speak to this fellow . 
whose grave's this ,  sir -  rah ? 	whose grave is this ,  sir ? 
mine ,  sir . 	mine ,  sir . 
o ,  a pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is meet . 	o ,  a pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is meet . 
I think it be thine indeed ,  for thou liest in't . 	I think it’s yours indeed ,  for you lie in it . 
you lie out on't ,  sir ,  and therefore 'tis not yours . 	you lie out of it ,  sir ,  and therefore it’s not yours . 
for my part ,  I do not lie in't ,  yet it is mine . 	for my part ,  I don’t lie in it ,  yet it ‘s mine . 
thou dost lie in't ,  to be in't and say it' 'tis thine . 	you do lie in it ,  to be in it and say it is yours . 
tis for the dead ,  not for the quick; therefore thou liest . 	It is for the dead ,  not for the quick ,  therefore you lie . 
tis a quick lie ,  sir; 'twill away again from me to you . 	It is a quick lie ,  sir ,  it will go away again from me to you . 
what man dost thou dig it for ? 	what man dot you dig it for ? 
for no man ,  sir . 	for no man ,  sir . 
what woman then ? 	what woman then ? 
for none ,  neither . 	for none neither . 
who is to be buried in't ? 	who is to be buried in it ? 
one that was a woman ,  sir; but ,  rest her soul ,  she's dead . 	one that was a woman ,  sir ,  but ,  rest her soul ,  she's dead . 
how absolute the knave is ! 	how absolutely clever this chap is ! 
we must speak by the card ,  or equivocation will undo us . 	we must speak by the book or lying will undo us . 
by the Lord ,  Horatio ,  this three years I have taken note of it ,  the age is grown so picked that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls his kibe . 	by the Lord ,  Horatio ,  these three years I have noted that the age is grown so picky that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier ,  he hurts his feelings . 
how long hast thou been a grave - maker ? 	how long have you been a grave - maker ? 
of all the days i' the year ,  I came to't that day that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras . 	of all the days in the year ,  I became a grave - maker the day that our last King Hamlet overcame Fortinbras . 
how long is that since ? 	how long is that since ? 
cannot you tell that ? 	can’t you tell that ? 
every fool can tell that . 	every fool can tell that . 
It was the very day that young Hamlet was born—he that is mad ,  and sent into England . 	It was the very day that young Hamlet was born ,  he that is crazy and sent into England . 
ay ,  marry ,  why was he sent into England ? 	yes ,  by Mary ,  why was he sent to England ? 
a shall recover his wits there; or ,  if a do not ,  'tis no great matter there . 	he shall get his mind back there ,  or ,  if he doesn’t ,  it's no great problem there . 
why ? 	why ? 
twill not he seen in him there . 	It will not be seen in him there . 
there the men are as mad as he . 	there the men are as crazy as he is . 
how came he mad ? 	how did he become crazy ? 
very strangely ,  they say . 	very strangely ,  they say . 
how 'strangely' ? 	how strangely ? 
faith ,  e'en with losing his wits . 	actually ,  even by losing his mind . 
upon what ground ? 	on what grounds ? 
why ,  here in Denmark . 	why ,  here in Denmark . 
I have been sexton here ,  man and boy ,  thirty years . 	I have been sexton here ,  man and boy ,  thirty years . 
how long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot ? 	how long will a man lie in the earth before he rots ? 
I' faith ,  if he be not rotten before he die—as we have many pocky corses nowadays that will scarce hold the laying in—he will last you some eight year or nine year . 	well ,  if he’s not rotten before he dies ,  as we have many small pox corpses nowadays that will scarce last beyond the wake ,  he will last you some eight years or nine years . 
a tanner will last you nine year . 	a tanner will last you nine years . 
why he more than another ? 	why he more than another ? 
why ,  sir ,  his hide is so tanned with his trade that a will keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body . 	why ,  sir ,  his hide is so tanned with his trade that he will keep out water a great while ,  and your water is a sore decayer of your wretched dead body . 
here's a skull ,  now . 	here's a skull now . 
this skull hath lain in the earth three and twenty years . 	this skull has been buried three - and - twenty years . 
whose was it ? 	whose was it ? 
a whoreson ,  mad fellow's it was . 	a bastard ,  crazy fellow's it was . 
whose do you think it was ? 	whose do you think it was ? 
nay ,  I know not . 	no ,  I know not . 
a pestilence on him for a mad rogue ! 	a pestilence on him for a crazy rogue ! 
a poured a flagon of Rhenish on my head once . 	he poured a pint of Rhine wine on my head once . 
this same skull ,  sir ,  was Yorick's skull ,  the King's jester . 	this same skull ,  sir ,  was Yorick's skull ,  the king's jester . 
this ? 	this one ? 
e'en that . 	just that one . 
alas ,  poor Yorick ! 	alas ,  poor Yorick ! 
I knew him ,  Horatio: a fellow of infinite jest ,  of most excellent fancy . 	I knew him ,  Horatio ,  a fellow of infinite fun ,  of most excellent imagination . 
my gorge rises at it . 	I want to vomit . 
here hung those lips that I have kissed I know not how oft . 	here hung those lips that I have kissed I don’t know how many times . 
where be your gibes now ? 	where are your jokes now ? 
your gambols ? 	your games ? 
your songs ? 	your songs ? 
your flashes of merriment ,  that were wont to set the table on a roar ? 	your flashes of laughter that always make the audience roar ? 
not one now to mock your own grinning ? 	no one now ,  to mock your own grinning ? 
quite chop - fallen ? 	quite jaw - fallen ? 
prithee ,  Horatio ,  tell me one thing . 	I beg you ,  Horatio ,  tell me one thing . 
what's that ,  my lord ? 	what's that ,  my lord ? 
dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i' the earth ? 	do you think Alexander the Great looked like this in the earth ? 
pah ! 	yuck ! 
e'en so ,  my lord . 	just like that ,  my lord . 
to what base uses we may return ,  Horatio ! 	what common uses we may return to ,  Horatio ! 
why may not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it stopping a bung - hole ? 	why can’t imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander until he finds it stopping a wine barrel ? 
twere to consider too curiously ,  to consider so . 	It’s thinking about it too much to think like that . 
Imperious Caesar ,  dead and turn'd to clay ,  Might stop a hole to keep the wind away . 	emperor Caesar ,  dead and turned to clay ,  Might stop a hole to keep the wind away . 
o ,  that that earth ,  which kept the world in awe Should patch a wall to expel the winter's flaw ! 	o ,  that the earth which kept the world in fear Should patch a wall to expel the winter's cold ! 
but soft ! 	but quiet ! 
who is this they follow ? 	who is that they’re following ? 
and with such maimed rites ? 	and with such shortened rites ? 
this doth betoken The corse they follow did with desperate hand Fordo it own life . 	this shows that The corpse they follow did ,  with a desperate hand ,  Commit suicide . 
twas of some estate . 	It was of some nobility . 
couch we awhile ,  and mark . 	let’s hide and listen . 
what ceremony else ? 	what other ceremony ? 
that is Laertes ,  a very noble youth . 	that is Laertes ,  A very noble youth . 
mark . 	look . 
what ceremony else ? 	what other ceremony ? 
her obsequies have been as far enlarged As we have warranty . 	her funeral rites have been as far enlarged As we can enlarge . 
must there no more be done ? 	Isn’t there more be done ? 
lay her i' the earth; And from her fair and unpolluted flesh May violets spring ! 	lay her in the earth ,  And may violets spring from her fair And unpolluted flesh ! 
I tell thee ,  churlish priest ,  A ministering angel shall my sister be When thou liest howling . 	I tell you ,  churlish priest ,  My sister shall be a ministering angel When you lie howling . 
what ,  the fair Ophelia ? 	what ,  the fair Ophelia ? 
sweets to the sweet ! 	sweets to the sweet . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife; I thought thy bride - bed to have deck'd ,  sweet maid ,  And not have strew'd thy grave . 	I hoped you would have been my Hamlet's wife ,  I thought to have decorated your bride - bed ,  sweet maid ,  And not your grave . 
o ,  treble woe Fall ten times treble on that cursed head Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense Deprived thee of ! 	o ,  three times sorrow Fall ten times treble on that cursed head Whose wicked deed deprived you of your most wonderful Intelligence ! 
hold off the earth awhile ,  Till I have caught her once more in mine arms . 	stop the burial a while ,  Until I hold her once more in mine arms . 
now pile your dust upon the quick and dead Till of this flat a mountain you have made To o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head Of blue Olympus . 	now bury the living and dead ,  Until you have made a mountain from this flat earth To be higher than the mountain of Italy or the skyish head Of blue Mount Olympus . 
this is I ,  Hamlet the Dane . 	this is I ,  Hamlet the Dane . 
the devil take thy soul ! 	the devil take your soul ! 
thou pray'st not well . 	you don’t pray well . 
I prithee ,  take thy fingers from my throat; For ,  though I am not splenitive and rash ,  Yet have I in me something dangerous ,  Which let thy wisdom fear . 	I beg you ,  take your fingers from my throat ,  For ,  although I am not impatient and rash ,  I still have something dangerous in me ,  Which you should fear . 
hold off thy hand ! 	take away your hand ! 
pluck them asunder . 	separate them . 
gentlemen ! 	gentlemen ! 
good my lord ,  be quiet . 	my good lord ,  be quiet . 
why ,  I will fight with him upon this theme Until my eyelids will no longer wag . 	why ,  I will fight with him upon this theme Until my eyelids will no longer blink . 
o my son ,  what theme ? 	o my son ,  what theme ? 
I loved Ophelia . 	I loved Ophelia ! 
forty thousand brothers Could not ,  with all their quantity of love ,  Make up my sum . 	forty thousand brothers Couldn’t ,  even with all their quantity of love ,  Make up my sum . 
what wilt thou do for her ? 	what will you do for her ? 
o ,  he is mad ,  Laertes . 	o ,  he is crazy ,  Laertes . 
for love of God ,  forbear him ! 	for love of God ,  leave him alone ! 
swounds ,  show me what thou'lt do . 	god’s wounds ,  show me what you'll do . 
I'll do't . 	I’ll do it . 
be buried quick with her ,  and so will I . 	be buried quickly with her ,  and so will I . 
and ,  if thou prate of mountains ,  let them throw Millions of acres on us ,  till our ground ,  Singeing his pate against the burning zone ,  Make Ossa like a wart ! 	and ,  if you babble about mountains ,  let them throw Millions of acres on us ,  until our ground ,  Singeing his head against the burning sun ,  Make the highest mountain like a wart ! 
nay ,  an thou'lt mouth ,  I'll rant as well as thou . 	no ,  if you’ll Speak ,  I’ll rant as well as you . 
anon ,  as patient as the female dove When that her golden couplets are disclosed ,  His silence will sit drooping . 	eventually ,  as patient as the female dove When that her golden twins are discovered ,  His silence will sit drooping . 
I loved you ever . 	I always loved you . 
but it is no matter . 	but it’s not important . 
let Hercules himself do what he may ,  The cat will mew ,  and dog will have his day . 	let Hercules himself do what he may ,  The cat will mew and every dog will have his day . 
we'll put the matter to the present push . — Good Gertrude ,  set some watch over your son . 	good Gertrude ,  put a guard over your son . 
this grave shall have a living monument . 	this grave shall have a living monument . 
so much for this ,  sir; now shall you see the other . 	so much for this ,  sir . 
you do remember all the circumstance ? 	now as for the other thing ,  You do remember all the circumstances ? 
remember it ,  my lord ! 	remember it ,  my lord ! 
sir ,  in my heart there was a kind of fighting That would not let me sleep . 	sir ,  there was a kind of fighting in my heart That wouldn’t let me sleep . 
methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes . 	I thought I lay Worse than in a rebellion ,  in the chains . 
such bugs and goblins in my life ,  That on the supervise ,  no leisure bated ,  No ,  not to stay the grinding of the axe ,  My head should be struck off . 	such ghosts and goblins in my life ,  That ,  on my arrival ,  without any delay ,  No ,  not even to wait for the grinding of the axe ,  My head should be chopped off . 
Is't possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
but wilt thou hear me how I did proceed ? 	but will you listen to how I proceeded ? 
I beseech you . 	go ahead .  . 
being thus benetted round with villainies— Or I could make a prologue to my brains ,  They had begun the play—I sat me down ,  Devised a new commission ,  wrote it fair . 	being surrounded like this with evil plans ,  Before I could start thinking about it ,  before They could execute the plan ,  I sat myself down ,  Though up a new order ,  wrote it just like the original . 
I once did hold it ,  as our statists do ,  A baseness to write fair ,  and labour'd much How to forget that learning; but ,  sir ,  now It did me yeoman's service . 	I used to think ,  as our politicians do ,  A sin to make a forgery and worked hard at How to forget that learning ,  but ,  sir ,  now It did me a useful service . 
wilt thou know The effect of what I wrote ? 	do you want to know The effect of what I wrote ? 
ay ,  good my lord . 	yes ,  good my lord . 
an earnest conjuration from the King ,  As England was his faithful tributary ,  As love between them like the palm might flourish ,  As peace should still her wheaten garland wear And stand a comma 'tween their amities ,  And many such like as's of great charge ,  That on the view and knowing of these contents ,  Without debatement further ,  more or less ,  He should the bearers put to sudden death ,  Not shriving - time allow'd . 	an earnest oath from the king ,  As England was his faithful ally ,  As love between them might flourish like the palm tree ,  As peace should still wear her wheaten garland And stand like a comma between their friendships ,  And many  “ as - es ”  like that of great emotion ,  That ,  on the view and knowledge of these contents ,  Without further discussion ,  more or less ,  He should the bearers put to sudden death ,  Not even allowing time for confession and penance . 
how was this seal'd ? 	how was this sealed ? 
why ,  even in that was heaven ordinant . 	why ,  even in that was heaven good to me . 
now ,  the next day Was our sea - fight; and what to this was sequent Thou know'st already . 	now ,  the next day Was our sea - fight ,  and what followed You know already . 
so Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't . 	so Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to it . 
why ,  man ,  they did make love to this employment ! 	why ,  man ,  they did make love to this job . 
they are not near my conscience; their defeat Does by their own insinuation grow . 	their defeat Grew by their own actions . 
tis dangerous when the baser nature comes Between the pass and fell incensed points Of mighty opposites . 	It is dangerous when the lower nature comes Between the ups and downs Of mighty opposites . 
why ,  what a king is this ! 	why ,  what a king is this ! 
does it not ,  think thee ,  stand me now upon— He that hath kill'd my king ,  and whored my mother; Popp'd in between the election and my hopes; Thrown out his angle for my proper life ,  And with such cozenage—is't not perfect conscience To quit him with this arm ? 	doesn’t it ,  do you thank ,  become my responsibility to kill He that has killed my king ,  and whored my mother ,  Push himself in between the election and my hope to be King ,  tried to kill me ,  And with such knowledge ,  isn’t it perfect duty To kill him with this arm ? 
and is't not to be damn'd To let this canker of our nature come In further evil ? 	and isn’t it to be damned To let this canker of our nature do Further evil ? 
It will be short; the interim is mine ,  And a man's life's is no more than to say 'One . 	the time between is mine ,  And a man's life is longer than it takes to say  “ One . 
but I am very sorry ,  good Horatio ,  That to Laertes I forgot myself ,  For by the image of my cause I see The portraiture of his . 	but I am very sorry ,  good Horatio ,  That I forgot myself to Laertes ,  Because ,  by the image of my cause ,  I can see Myself in him . 
I'll court his favours . 	I’ll court his favors . 
but ,  sure ,  the bravery of his grief did put me Into a towering passion . 	but ,  for sure ,  the bravery of his grief put me Into a towering passion . 
peace ,  who comes here ? 	quiet ,  who’s coming here ? 
your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark . 	your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark . 
I humbly thank you ,  sir . 	I humbly thank you ,  sir . 
dost know this water - fly ? 	do you know this water - fly ? 
no ,  my good lord . 	no ,  my good lord . 
thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to know him . 	your state is the more gracious ,  for it is a vice to know him . 
he hath much land ,  and fertile . 	he has much fertile land . 
let a beast be lord of beasts ,  and his crib shall stand at the king's mess . 	let a beast be lord of beasts ,  and his cattle shall stand at the king's dinner table . 
tis a chough; but ,  as I say ,  spacious in the pos -  session of dirt . 	he’s a clown ,  but ,  as I say ,  proud to own dirt . 
sweet lord ,  if your lordship were at leisure ,  I should impart a thing to you from his Majesty . 	sweet lord ,  if your lordship were not busy ,  I should impart a thing to you from his majesty . 
I will receive it ,  sir ,  with all diligence of spirit . 	I will listen very carefully . 
put your bonnet to his right use . 	put your hat to its right use . 
tis for the head . 	It is for the head . 
I thank your lordship ,  it is very hot . 	I thank your lordship ,  it is very hot . 
no ,  believe me ,  'tis very cold; the wind is northerly . 	no ,  believe me ,  it is very cold ,  the wind is northerly . 
It is indifferent cold ,  my lord ,  indeed . 	It is unusually cold ,  my lord ,  indeed . 
but yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion . 	I think it is very sultry and hot for my complexion . 
exceedingly ,  my lord; it is very sultry ,  as 'twere—I can -  not tell how . 	exceedingly ,  my lord ,  it is very sultry ,  I can’t tell how . 
but ,  my lord ,  his Majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager on your head . 	but ,  my lord ,  his majesty asked me to tell you that he has placed a great wager on your head . 
sir ,  here is newly come to court Laertes; believe me ,  an absolute gentleman ,  full of most excellent differences ,  of very soft society and great showing . 	sir ,  here Laertes is newly come to court ,  believe me ,  an absolute gentleman ,  full of most excellent traits ,  of very soft manners and looking great . 
Indeed ,  to speak feelingly of him ,  he is the card or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of what part a gen -  tleman would see . 	Indeed ,  to speak feelingly of him ,  he is the card or calendar of gentry ,  because you shall find in him the continent of what a gentleman is . 
sir ,  his definement suffers no perdition in you; though ,  I know ,  to divide him inventorially would dizzy the arithmetic of memory ,  and yet but yaw neither ,  in respect of his quick sail . 	sir ,  his refinement suffers no lie from you ,  although ,  I know ,  to divide him like an inventor would make the memory dizzy with arithmetic ,  and yet not off course ,  in regard to his quick sail . 
but ,  in the verity of extolment ,  I take him to be a soul of great article ,  and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as ,  to make true diction of him ,  his semblable is his mirror ,  and who else would trace him ,  his umbrage ,  nothing more . 	but ,  in the truth of praise ,  I take him to be a soul of great note ,  and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as ,  to make true talk of him ,  he is what you see ,  and whoever copies him ,  is his shadow ,  nothing more . 
your lordship speaks most infallibly of him . 	your lordship speaks most truly of him . 
the concernancy ,  sir ? 	the concern sir ? 
why do we wrap the gen -  tleman in our more rawer breath ? 	why do we wrap the gentleman in our more rare breath ? 
sir ? 	sir ? 
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue ? 	Isn’t it possible to understand in another tongue ? 
you will to't ,  sir ,  really . 	you will do it ,  Sir ,  really . 
what imports the nomination of this gentleman ? 	what about the naming of this gentleman ? 
of Laertes ? 	of Laertes ? 
of him ,  sir . 	of him ,  sir . 
well ,  sir ? 	well ,  sir . 
I mean ,  sir ,  for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him by them ,  in his meed he's unfellowed . 	I mean ,  sir ,  for his weapon ,  but in the imputation laid on him by them ,  in his skill ,  he has no equal . 
what's his weapon ? 	what's his weapon ? 
rapier and dagger . 	sword and dagger . 
that's two of his weapons . 	that's two of his weapons . 
but ,  well . 	but never mind . 
what call you the carriages ? 	what do you call the carriages ? 
I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done . 	I knew you must be aware of the margin before you had finished . 
the carriages ,  sir ,  are the hangers . 	the carriages ,  sir ,  are the hangers . 
the phrase would be more German to the matter if we could carry a cannon by our sides . 	the phrase would be more german to the matter if we could carry cannons by our sides . 
I would it might be hangers till then . 	I would it might be hangers till then . 
but on ! 	but ,  on . 
why is this 'impawned , ' as you call it ? 	why is this all wagered ,  as you call it ? 
how if I answer no ? 	what if I say no ? 
I mean ,  my lord ,  the opposition of your person in trial . 	I mean ,  my lord ,  the fight of your person in trial . 
sir ,  I will walk here in the hall . 	sir ,  I will walk here in the hall . 
If it please his Majesty ,  it is the breathing time of day with me . 	If it please his majesty ,  it is the relaxing time of day with me . 
shall I redeliver you e'en so ? 	shall I re - deliver your answer like that ? 
to this effect ,  sir ,  after what flourish your nature will . 	with my meaning ,  sir ,  however you want to say it . 
I commend my duty to your lordship . 	I commend my duty to your lordship . 
yours ,  yours . 	yours ,  yours . 
he does well to commend it himself; there are no tongues else for's turn . 	he does well to praise himself ,  because no one else will praise him . 
this lapwing runs away with the shell on his head . 	a just hatched bird runs away with eggshell on his head . 
he did comply with his dug before he sucked it . 	he did comply with his mother’s breast before he sucked it . 
thus has he—and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes on—only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter ,  a kind of yesty collection ,  which carries them through and through the most fanned and winnowed opinions; and do but blow them to their trial ,  the bubbles are out . 	he has ,  and many more just like him that I know the worthless age dotes on ,  are only part of a craze and have the outward appearance of style ,  a kind of swollen collection ,  which carries them through and through the most airless opinions and only blows them to their real experience when the bubbles are burst . 
my lord ,  his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric ,  who brings back to him that you attend him in the hall . 	my lord ,  his majesty sent a message to you by young Osric ,  who tells him that you will meet him in the hall . 
he sends to know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes ,  or that you will take longer time . 	he want to know if will play with Laertes now ,  or whether you will take a longer time . 
I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure . 	I am true to my intentions; they follow the king's pleasure . 
If his fitness speaks ,  mine is ready; now or when -  soever ,  provided I be so able as now . 	If he is ready now ,  I am too ,  now or whenever ,  provided that I am so able as I am now . 
the King and Queen and all are coming down . 	the King and Queen and all are coming down . 
In happy time . 	In happy time . 
the Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play . 	the queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to Laertes before you start to play . 
she well instructs me . 	she instructs me well . 
you will lose this wager ,  my lord . 	you will lose this wager ,  my lord . 
I do not think so . 	I don’t think so . 
since he went into France I have been in continual practice . 	since he went to France ,  I have been in constant practice . 
I shall win at the odds . 	I shall win at the odds . 
but thou wouldst not think how ill all's here about my heart . 	but you wouldn’t know what a bad feeling I have inside . 
but it is no matter . 	but it doesn’t matter . 
nay ,  good my lord— It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gain - giving as would perhaps trouble a woman . 	no ,  my good lord ,  It’s only foolishness ,  but it is such a kind of misgiving as would maybe trouble a woman . 
If your mind dislike anything ,  obey it . 	If you have a gut feeling ,  obey it . 
the readiness is all . 	being ready is everything . 
since no man has aught of what he leaves ,  what is't to leave betimes ? 	since no man has anything of what he leaves ,  what is it to leave soon ? 
come ,  Hamlet ,  come ,  and take this hand from me . 	come ,  Hamlet ,  come ,  and take this hand from me . 
give me your pardon ,  sir . 	give me your pardon ,  sir . 
this presence knows ,  And you must needs have heard ,  how I am punish'd With sore distraction . 	this King knows ,  and you must have heard ,  How I am punished with a painful madness . 
what I have done That might your nature ,  honour ,  and exception Roughly awake ,  I here proclaim was madness . 	what I have done That might deeply hurt your nature ,  honor ,  And complaints ,  I here proclaim was craziness . 
was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes ? 	was it Hamlet who wronged Laertes ? 
never Hamlet . 	never Hamlet . 
who does it ,  then ? 	who does it ,  then ? 
his madness . 	his madness . 
sir ,  in this audience ,  Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil Free me so far in your most generous thoughts That I have shot my arrow o'er the house And hurt my brother . 	sir ,  before this audience ,  Let my denial of evil intent Give me immunity in your most generous thoughts As though I have shot my arrow over the house And hurt my brother . 
I am satisfied in nature ,  Whose motive in this case should stir me most To my revenge . 	I am satisfied in nature ,  Whose motive ,  in this case ,  should move me the most To my revenge . 
but in my terms of honour I stand aloof ,  and will no reconcilement Till by some elder masters of known honour I have a voice and precedent of peace To keep my name ungor'd . 	but in my terms of honor I hold back ,  and will make no reconciliation Until ,  by some elder masters of known honor ,  I have a voice and precedent of peace To keep my name unbloody . 
but till that time I do receive your offer'd love like love ,  And will not wrong it . 	but until that time ,  I receive your offered love like love ,  And won’t do it wrong . 
I embrace it freely ,  And will this brother's wager frankly play . — Give us the foils . 	I accept it freely ,  And will play this brother's wager honestly . 
come on . 	give us the swords ,  come on . 
come ,  one for me . 	come ,  one for me . 
I'll be your foil ,  Laertes . 	I’ll be your mirror ,  Laertes . 
In mine ignorance Your skill shall ,  like a star i' the darkest night ,  Stick fiery off indeed . 	In my ignorance ,  Your skill shall ,  like a star in the darkest night ,  be shown to its fiery advantage indeed . 
you mock me ,  sir . 	you mock me ,  sir . 
no ,  by this hand . 	no ,  honestly . 
give them the foils ,  young Osric . 	give them the swords ,  young Osric . 
cousin Hamlet ,  You know the wager ? 	cousin Hamlet ,  You know the wager ? 
I do not fear it ,  I have seen you both; But since he is better'd ,  we have therefore odds . 	I have seen you both ,  But since he's gotten better ,  we have ,  therefore ,  odds . 
this likes me well . 	I like this one . 
these foils have all a length ? 	all these swords have a length ? 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
set me the stoups of wine upon that table . 	set up the goblets of wine for me on that table . 
If Hamlet give the first or second hit ,  Or quit in answer of the third exchange ,  Let all the battlements their ordnance fire; The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath ,  And in the cup an union shall he throw Richer than that which four successive kings In Denmark's crown have worn . 	If Hamlet gives the first or second hit ,  Or quits in answer of the third exchange ,  Let all the battlements fire their ammunition ,  The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath ,  And in the cup he shall throw a pearl ,  Richer than that which four successive kings Have worn in Denmark's crown . 
give me the cups; And let the kettle to the trumpet speak ,  The trumpet to the cannoneer without ,  The cannons to the heavens ,  the heaven to earth ,  ‘Now the King drinks to Hamlet . ’ Come ,  begin . 	give me the cups ,  And let the kettle drum speak to the trumpet ,  The trumpet to the cannon man outside ,  The cannons to the heavens ,  the heavens to earth ,  'Now the king drinks to Hamlet .  ”  Come ,  begin . 
and you the judges ,  bear a wary eye . 	and you ,  the judges ,  watch carefully . 
come on ,  sir . 	come on ,  sir . 
come ,  my lord . 	come ,  my lord . 
one . 	one . 
no . 	no . 
judgment ! 	judges ? 
a hit ,  a very palpable hit . 	a hit ,  a hit that was felt . 
well ,  again ! 	oK ,  again . 
stay ,  give me drink . 	stay ,  give me drink . 
hamlet ,  this pearl is thine; Here's to thy health . 	hamlet ,  this pearl is your ,  Here's to your health . 
give him the cup . 	give him the cup . 
I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile . 	I’ll play this bout first ,  put it aside a while . 
come . 	come on . 
a touch ,  a touch; I do confess . 	a touch ,  a touch ,  I do confess . 
our son shall win . 	our son shall win . 
he's fat ,  and scant of breath . 	he's fat ,  and out of breath . 
the Queen carouses to thy fortune ,  Hamlet . 	the queen drinks to your fortune ,  Hamlet . 
good madam ! 	good madam ! 
gertrude ,  do not drink . 	gertrude ,  don’t drink . 
I will ,  my lord; I pray you pardon me . 	I will ,  my lord ,  I beg you to pardon me . 
It is the poison'd cup; it is too late . 	It is the poisoned cup; it is too late . 
I dare not drink yet ,  madam—by - and - by . 	I dare not drink yet ,  madam ,  by and by . 
come ,  let me wipe thy face . 	come ,  let me wipe your face . 
my lord ,  I'll hit him now . 	my lord ,  I’ll hit him now . 
I do not think't . 	I don’t think so . 
and yet it is almost against my conscience . 	and yet it is almost against my conscience . 
come for the third ,  Laertes ! 	come ,  for the third ,  Laertes . 
say you so ? 	you say so ? 
come on . 	come on . 
nothing ,  neither way . 	nothing ,  neither way . 
have at you now ! 	I’ll attack you now ! 
part them ! 	part them . 
they are incensed . 	they are in a rage . 
look to the Queen there ,  ho ! 	look to the queen there ,  ho ! 
they bleed on both sides . 	they bleed on both sides . 
how is it ,  my lord ? 	how are you ,  my lord ? 
how is't ,  Laertes ? 	how are you ,  Laertes ? 
why ,  as a woodcock to mine own springe ,  Osric . 	why ,  as a woodpecker caught in my own trap ,  Osric . 
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery . 	I am justly killed with my own wickedness . 
how does the Queen ? 	how is the Queen ? 
she swoons to see them bleed . 	she swoons to see them bleed . 
no ,  no ! 	no ,  no ! 
I am poison'd . 	I am poisoned . 
o villainy ! 	o villainy ! 
ho ! 	ho ! 
let the door be lock'd . 	let the doors be locked . 
treachery ! 	wickedness ! 
seek it out . 	find it ! 
It is here ,  Hamlet . 	It is here ,  Hamlet . 
hamlet ,  thou art slain; No medicine in the world can do thee good . 	hamlet ,  you are killed ,  No medicine in the world can save you . 
the foul practice Hath turn'd itself on me . 	the evil deed Has turned itself on me . 
lo ,  here I lie ,  Never to rise again . 	behold ,  here I lie ,  Never to rise again . 
thy mother's poison'd . 	your mother's poisoned . 
I can no more . 	I can do no more . 
the King ,  the King's to blame . 	the King ,  the King's to blame . 
the point envenom'd too ! 	the point poisoned too ! 
then ,  venom ,  to thy work . 	then ,  venom ,  do your work . 
treason ! 	treason ! 
treason ! 	treason ! 
o ,  yet defend me ,  friends ! 	o ,  still defend me ,  friends ! 
I am but hurt . 	I am only hurt . 
here ,  thou incestuous ,  murderous ,  damned Dane ,  Drink off this potion ! 	here ,  you incestuous ,  murderous ,  damned Dane ,  Drink this potion . 
Is thy union here ? 	Is your marriage here ? 
follow my mother . 	follow my mother . 
exchange forgiveness with me ,  noble Hamlet . 	exchange forgiveness with me ,  noble Hamlet . 
mine and my father's death come not upon thee ,  Nor thine on me ! 	and I am not guilty of yours . 
heaven make thee free of it ! 	heaven forgive you for it ! 
I follow thee . 	I follow you . 
I am dead ,  Horatio . 	I am dead ,  Horatio . 
wretched Queen ,  adieu ! 	wretched queen ,  goodbye ! 
never believe it . 	never believe it . 
I am more an antique Romanthan a Dane . 	I am more an antique Roman than a Dane . 
here's yet some liquor left . 	here's some poison wine still left . 
o God ,  Horatio ,  what a wounded name ,  Things standing thus unknown ,  shall live behind me ! 	o good Horatio ,  what a wounded name that is ,  Things left unknown like this ,  shall live after me ! 
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart ,  Absent thee from felicity awhile ,  And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain ,  To tell my story . 	If you ever did hold me in your heart ,  Stay away from happy things for a while ,  And ,  in this harsh world ,  draw your breath in pain To tell my story . 
what warlike noise is this ? 	what warlike noise is this ? 
young Fortinbras ,  with conquest come from Poland ,  To the ambassadors of England gives This warlike volley . 	young Fortinbras ,  after conquering Poland ,  Gives this warlike volley To the ambassadors of England . 
I cannot live to hear the news from England ,  But I do prophesy the election lights On Fortinbras . 	I cannot live to hear the news from England ,  But I do predict that the throne belongs To Fortinbras . 
now cracks a noble heart . 	now a noble heart breaks . 
good night ,  sweet prince ,  And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest ! 	good night ,  sweet prince ,  And flights of angels sing you to your rest ! 
why does the drum come hither ? 	why does the drum come here ? 
where is this sight ? 	where is this sight ? 
what is it you will see ? 	what do you want to see ? 
If aught of woe or wonder ,  cease your search . 	If anything of sorrow or wonder ,  stop your search . 
this quarry cries on havoc . 	this scene is chaotic . 
o proud Death ,  What feast is toward in thine eternal cell That thou so many princes at a shot So bloodily hast struck ? 	o proud death ,  What feast is being held in your eternal cell ,  That you have killed so many princes So bloodily all at the same time ? 
the sight is dismal; And our affairs from England come too late . 	the sight is sad ,  And our affairs come too late from England . 
the ears are senseless that should give us hearing To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead . 	the ears that should give us hearing can’t hear ,  To tell him his order is obeyed ,  That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead . 
where should we have our thanks ? 	who will thank us ? 
not from his mouth ,  Had it the ability of life to thank you . 	no thanks from his mouth ,  If it were alive to thank you . 
he never gave commandment for their death . 	he never gave orders for their deaths . 
but since ,  so jump upon this bloody question ,  You from the Polack wars ,  and you from England ,  Are here arrived ,  give order that these bodies High on a stage be placed to the view; And let me speak to the yet unknowing world How these things came about . 	but since ,  you from the Polack wars ,  and you from England ,  are here arrived ,  and so jump on this bloody Question ,  give order that these bodies High on a stage be placed to the view ,  And let me speak to the yet unknowing world How these things came about . 
so shall you hear Of carnal ,  bloody and unnatural acts; Of accidental judgments ,  casual slaughters; Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause; And ,  in this upshot ,  purposes mistook Fall'n on the inventors' heads . 	so you shall hear Of carnal ,  bloody and unnatural acts ,  Of accidental judgments ,  casual slaughters ,  Of deaths planned by cunning and false causes ,  And ,  in this result ,  mistaken motives Fallen on the planners' heads . 
all this can I Truly deliver . 	I can truly deliver All this . 
let us haste to hear it ,  And call the noblest to the audience . 	let us hurry to hear it ,  And call the noblest to hear it too . 
for me ,  with sorrow I embrace my fortune . 	as for me ,  I embrace my fortune with sorrow . 
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom ,  Which now ,  to claim my vantage doth invite me . 	I have some rights of past history in this kingdom ,  Which now invites me to claim my place . 
of that I shall have also cause to speak ,  And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more . 	I shall also have cause to speak of that ,  And directly from his mouth whose voice will deliver it . 
but let this same be presently perform'd ,  Even while men's minds are wild ,  lest more mischance On plots and errors happen . 	but let this speaking be done now ,  Even while men's minds are wild ,  lest more mischance On plots and errors happen . 
let four captains Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage; For he was likely ,  had he been put on ,  To have proved most royal; and ,  for his passage ,  The soldiers' music and the rites of war Speak loudly for him . 	let four captains Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the platform ,  For he was likely ,  had he been King ,  To have proved most royal ,  and ,  for his passage ,  The soldiers' music and the rites of war will Speak loudly for him . 
take up the bodies . 	take up the bodies . 
the town is beseeched ,  and the trumpet call us to the breach ,  and we talk and ,  be Chrish ,  do nothing ,  ’tis shame for us all . 	the town is besieged ,  and the trumpet calls us to the gap ,  and we talk and do nothing ,  by Christ . 
so God sa' me ,  ’tis shame to stand still . 	It’s a disgrace to us all . 
by the mess ,  ere theise eyes of mine take themselves to slomber ,  ay’ll de gud service ,  or I’ll lig i' th' grund for it ,  ay ,  or go to death . 	I swear by the mass ,  before I close my eyes to go to sleep ,  I’ll put in some good fighting ,  or I’ll lie in the ground dead . 
captain Macmorris ,  I think ,  look you ,  under your correction ,  there is not many of your nation—  Of my nation ? 	captain Macmorris ,  I think ,  see—correct me if I’m wrong—there are not many of your nation— My nation ? 
what ish my nation ? 	what is my nation ? 
Ish a villain and a basterd and a knave and a rascal . 	It’s a villain and a bastard and a coward and a rascal . 
what ish my nation ? 	what is my nation ? 
who talks of my nation ? 	who talks of my nation ? 
look you ,  if you take the matter otherwise than is meant ,  Captain Macmorris ,  peradventure I shall think you do not use me with that affability as ,  in discretion ,  you ought to use me ,  look you ,  being as good a man as yourself ,  both in the disciplines of war and in the derivation of my birth and in other particularities . 	captain Macmorris ,  if you take my words in some way other than how they were meant ,  see ,  I’ll have to think you’re not treating me with the good will you ought to ,  see ,  since I am as good a man as yourself ,  both in the practice of war and in my country of origin and in other respects . 
I do not know you so good a man as myself . 	I do not know that you are as good a man as myself . 
so Chrish save me ,  I will cut off your head . 	so ,  by Christ ,  I’ll cut off your head . 
gentlemen both ,  you will mistake each other . 	now ,  now ,  both of you gentlemen ! 
ah ,  that’s a foul fault . 	yes ,  and that’s a serious failing . 
the town sounds a parley . 	the town is asking for a pause in the fighting for negotiation . 
captain Macmorris ,  when there is more better opportunity to be required ,  look you ,  I will be so bold as to tell you I know the disciplines of war ,  and there is an end . 	captain Macmorris ,  when we have more leisure ,  see ,  I will be so bold as to show you I know about the practice of warfare ,  and that’s that . 
how yet resolves the governor of the town ? 	what has the governor of the town decided ? 
this is the latest parle we will admit . 	this is the final discussion I will grant . 
therefore to our best mercy give yourselves Or ,  like to men proud of destruction ,  Defy us to our worst . 	so submit to my mercy or ,  like men who revel in their own destruction ,  challenge me to do my worst . 
for ,  as I am a soldier ,  A name that in my thoughts becomes me best ,  If I begin the batt'ry once again ,  I will not leave the half - achieved Harfleur Till in her ashes she lie burièd . 	for ,  as I am a soldier ,  the name I think suits me best ,  once I begin my attack on Harfleur again ,  I will not leave the half - conquered town until she lies buried in her own ashes . 
the gates of mercy shall be all shut up ,  And the fleshed soldier ,  rough and hard of heart ,  In liberty of bloody hand ,  shall range With conscience wide as hell ,  mowing like grass Your fresh fair virgins and your flow'ring infants . 	the gates of mercy will be closed by then ,  and harsh and hard - hearted soldiers ,  who have tasted blood ,  will have free reign to commit whatever violence they want ,  mowing down your lovely young virgins and budding infants . 
what rein can hold licentious wickedness When down the hill he holds his fierce career ? 	what power can rein in promiscuous evil once it’s gotten rolling ? 
we may as bootless spend our vain command Upon th' enragèd soldiers in their spoil As send precepts to the Leviathan To come ashore . 	we might as well send orders to the whale to come ashore as try to restore order in soldiers carried away with their looting . 
what say you ? 	what do you say ? 
will you yield and this avoid Or ,  guilty in defense ,  be thus destroyed ? 	will you surrender and avoid all this or be called to account for the destruction of this town ? 
our expectation hath this day an end . 	today our hopes are at an end . 
the Dauphin ,  whom of succors we entreated ,  Returns us that his powers are yet not ready To raise so great a siege . 	the Dauphin ,  whom we asked for reinforcements ,  sends back the answer that he’s not yet in a position to raise so great an army . 
therefore ,  great King ,  We yield our town and lives to thy soft mercy . 	therefore ,  great king ,  we surrender our town and lives to your kind mercy . 
open your gates . 	open your gates . 
come ,  uncle Exeter ,  Go you and enter Harfleur . 	come ,  uncle Exeter ,  enter Harfleur . 
there remain And fortify it strongly 'gainst the French . 	stay there and fortify it well against the French . 
tonight in Harfleur will we be your guest; Tomorrow for the march are we addressed . 	tonight in Harfleur we will be your guest; tomorrow we’ll march on . 
It must be so ,  for miracles are ceased ,  And therefore we must needs admit the means How things are perfected . 	no ,  I’ll recite it for you right now:  “ de hand ,  de fangres ,  de nails— ”   “ De nails ,  ”  madame . 
doth his Majesty Incline to it or no ? 	ugh ! 
d'elbow .  ”        “ D'elbow ,  ”      “ De nick ,  ”    “ De nick .  ”    “ De chin .  ”   “ De sin .  ” 	that’s enough for one lesson . 
tis certain he hath passed the river Somme . 	he’s certainly crossed the river Somme . 
an if he be not fought withal ,  my lord ,  Let us not live in France . 	and if he advances unopposed ,  my lord ,  let us abandon France . 
let us quit all And give our vineyards to a barbarous people . 	let us leave everything and give our vineyards to the barbarous nation . 
normans ,  but bastard Normans ,  Norman bastards ! 	god alive ! 
unfought withal ,  but I will sell my dukedom To buy a slobb'ry and a dirty farm In that nook - shotten isle of Albion . 	If they march along unopposed ,  I will sell my dukedom for a sodden ,  filthy farm in that craggy isle of Albion . 
Is not their climate foggy ,  raw ,  and dull ,  On whom ,  as in despite ,  the sun looks pale ,  Killing their fruit with frowns ? 	doesn’t the sun shine palely down on them ,  as though in contempt ,  killing their fruit with frowns ? 
and shall our quick blood ,  spirited with wine ,  Seem frosty ? 	and shall our lively blood ,  quickened by wine ,  be so frosty ? 
where is Montjoy the herald ? 	where is Montjoy ,  the herald ? 
speed him hence . 	send him on his way quickly . 
let him greet England with our sharp defiance . 	tell him to greet the king of England with our sharp defiance . 
up ,  princes ,  and ,  with spirit of honor edged More sharper than your swords ,  hie to the field: Charles Delabreth ,  High Constable of France; You dukes of Orléans ,  Bourbon ,  and of Berri ,  Alençon ,  Brabant ,  Bar ,  and Burgundy; Jacques Chatillon ,  Rambures ,  Vaudemont ,  Beaumont ,  Grandpré ,  Roussi ,  and Faulconbridge ,  Foix ,  Lestrale ,  Bouciqualt ,  and Charolois; High dukes ,  great princes ,  barons ,  lords ,  and knights ,  For your great seats now quit you of great shames . 	rise ,  princes ,  and ,  with a spirit of honor more sharply edged than your swords ,  rush to the battlefield: Charles Delabreth ,  High Constable of France; you dukes of Orléans ,  Bourbon ,  Berri ,  Alençon ,  Brabant ,  Bar ,  and Burgundy; Jaques Chatillon ,  Rambures ,  Vaudemont ,  Beaumont ,  Grandpré ,  Roussi ,  and Fauconberg ,  Foix ,  Lestrale ,  Bouciqualt ,  and Charolois . 
bar Harry England ,  that sweeps through our land With pennons painted in the blood of Harfleur . 	stop Harry of England ,  who is now sweeping through our land with banners drenched in the French blood he spilled at Harfleur . 
therefore ,  Lord Constable ,  haste on Montjoy And let him say to England that we send To know what willing ransom he will give . 	have Montjoy hurry ,  then ,  Lord Constable ,  and have him ask the king of England what he is willing to pay us to get out of the war . 
prince Dauphin ,  you shall stay with us in Rouen . 	prince Dauphin ,  you’ll stay with me in Rouen . 
not so ,  I do beseech your Majesty . 	no ,  please ,  I beg your Majesty . 
be patient ,  for you shall remain with us . 	be patient ,  because you’re staying with me . 
now forth ,  Lord Constable and princes all ,  And quickly bring us word of England’s fall . 	go now ,  Lord Constable and all you princes ,  and quickly bring us news of England’s defeat . 
Is the duke of Exeter safe ? 	Is the duke of Exeter safe ? 
he is called Aunchient Pistol . 	he is called Ensign Pistol . 
I know him not . 	I don’t know him . 
here is the man . 	here he is . 
captain ,  I thee beseech to do me favors . 	captain ,  I have a favor to beg of you . 
the duke of Exeter doth love thee well . 	you’re on very good terms with the duke of Exeter . 
ay ,  I praise God ,  and I have merited some love at his hands . 	yes ,  God be praised ,  I have managed to earn his favor . 
fortune is an excellent moral . 	she provides an excellent moral . 
a damnèd death ! 	I’m glad to hear it . 
aunchient Pistol ,  I do partly understand your meaning . 	discipline must be kept . 
die and be damned ,  and  It is well . 	then die and be damned ! 
why ,  this is an arrant counterfeit rascal . 	why ,  that man is a total fraud and rascal . 
I’ll assure you ,  he uttered as prave words at the pridge as you shall see in a summer’s day . 	what he just said to me—it’s alright . 
trick up with new - tuned oaths; and what a beard of the general’s cut and a horrid suit of the camp will do among foaming bottles and ale - washed wits is wonderful to be thought on . 	and what a beard trimmed like the general’s or a rough uniform will do among foaming mugs and brains washed with ale ,  you wouldn’t believe . 
but you must learn to know such slanders of the age ,  or else you may be marvelously mistook . 	but you must learn to recognize such liars ,  or you will be greatly taken advantage of . 
If I find a hole in his coat ,  I will tell him my mind . 	If I find an opportunity ,  I will give him a piece of my mind . 
how now ,  Fluellen ,  cam’st thou from the bridge ? 	tell me ,  Fluellen: did you just come from the bridge ? 
ay ,  so please your Majesty . 	yes ,  your Majesty . 
the duke of Exeter has very gallantly maintained the pridge . 	the duke of Exeter has held the bridge very gallantly . 
the French is gone off ,  look you ,  and there is gallant and most prave passages . 	the French have retreated ,  see ,  and there were great acts of courage . 
marry ,  th' athversary was have possession of the pridge ,  but he is enforced to retire ,  and the duke of Exeter is master of the pridge . 	Indeed ,  the enemy nearly took the bridge ,  but he was forced to retreat ,  and the duke of Exeter holds the bridge . 
I can tell your Majesty ,  the duke is a prave man . 	I can tell your Majesty ,  the duke is a brave man . 
what men have you lost ,  Fluellen ? 	what men have you lost ,  Fluellen ? 
the perdition of th' athversary hath been very great ,  reasonable great . 	the enemy’s losses have been very great ,  pretty substantial . 
marry ,  for my part ,  I think the duke hath lost never a man ,  but one that is like to be executed for robbing a church ,  one Bardolph ,  if your Majesty know the man . 	to tell the truth ,  though ,  I think the duke hasn’t lost a single man ,  except for one who will probably be executed for robbing a church ,  one Bardolph—I don’t know if your Majesty knows the man . 
we would have all such offenders so cut off ,  and we give express charge that in our marches through the country there be nothing compelled from the villages ,  nothing taken but paid for ,  none of the French upbraided or abused in disdainful language; for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom ,  the gentler gamester is the soonest winner . 	I want all such offenders to be dealt with that way ,  and I give precise orders that in our progress through the country there shall be nothing seized from the villages ,  nothing taken that is not paid for ,  none of the French harassed or abused in disrespectful language . 
you know me by my habit . 	you know from my clothing who I am . 
well then ,  I know thee . 	well then ,  I know who you are . 
what shall I know of thee ? 	what do you have to tell me ? 
my master’s mind . 	my master’s decision . 
unfold it . 	go ahead . 
thus says my king:  “ Say thou to Harry of England ,  though we seemed dead ,  we did but sleep . 	my king says this:  “ Tell Harry of England: though we appeared dead ,  we were only asleep . 
advantage is a better soldier than rashness . 	strategy makes a better soldier than haste . 
tell him we could have rebuked him at Harfleur ,  but that we thought not good to bruise an injury till it were full ripe . 	tell him we could have driven him back at Harfleur but thought it unwise to burst a pustule before it had fully ripened . 
now we speak upon our cue ,  and our voice is imperial . 	now the time is right for us to speak ,  and we do so with imperial authority . 
with good acceptance of his Majesty— Save that there was not time enough to hear ,  As I perceived his Grace would fain have done ,  The severals and unhidden passages Of his true titles to some certain dukedoms ,  And generally to the crown and seat of France ,  Derived from Edward ,  his great - grandfather . 	favorably ,  except that there wasn’t enough time for his Grace to hear ,  as I sensed he would have liked to ,  the details about how he is rightfully entitled to certain dukedoms in France ,  and to the throne of France in general ,  through clear lines of descent originating with his great - grandfather ,  Edward III . 
what was th' impediment that broke this off ? 	what kept you from telling him this ? 
the French ambassador upon that instant Craved audience . 	the French ambassador arrived at that moment and asked to see the king . 
and the hour ,  I think ,  is come To give him hearing . 	and ,  in fact ,  I think they’re meeting together right now . 
Is it four o'clock ? 	Is it four o'clock ? 
It is . 	It is . 
then go we in to know his embassy ,  Which I could with a ready guess declare Before the Frenchman speak a word of it . 	then let’s go in and hear what he has to say—though I think I can guess before the Frenchman has uttered a word . 
bid him therefore consider of his ransom ,  which must proportion the losses we have borne ,  the subjects we have lost ,  the disgrace we have digested ,  which ,  in weight to reanswer ,  his pettiness would bow under . 	have lost ,  and the indignity we have endured ,  for which he is too insignificant to sufficiently pay us back . 
for our losses ,  his exchequer is too poor; for th' effusion of our blood ,  the muster of his kingdom too faint a number; and for our disgrace ,  his own person ,  kneeling at our feet but a weak and worthless satisfaction . 	his coffers are too poor to atone for our losses ,  his entire kingdom too small to account for the amount of blood we’ve shed ,  and the sight of him kneeling at our feet an empty satisfaction compared to the indignity we have put up with . 
to this ,  add defiance ,  and tell him ,  for conclusion ,  he hath betrayed his followers ,  whose condemnation is pronounced .  ”  So far my king and master; so much my office . 	add defiance to all this and ,  by way of conclusion ,  tell him that he has betrayed the men who follow him ,  whose death sentence has been pronounced .  ”  My king and master’s message delivered ,  my task is done . 
what is thy name ? 	what is your name ? 
I know thy quality . 	I know your position . 
montjoy . 	montjoy . 
thou dost thy office fairly . 	you do your job well . 
turn thee back ,  And tell thy king I do not seek him now But could be willing to march on to Calais Without impeachment ,  for ,  to say the sooth ,  Though ’tis no wisdom to confess so much Unto an enemy of craft and vantage ,  My people are with sickness much enfeebled ,  My numbers lessened ,  and those few I have Almost no better than so many French ,  Who when they were in health ,  I tell thee ,  herald ,  I thought upon one pair of English legs Did march three Frenchmen . 	go back and tell your king I do not seek an encounter with him now but would be willing to march on to Calais without interference ,  for—to be honest ,  though it’s probably unwise to confess this to a powerful enemy who has the advantage—my men are considerably weakened by illness ,  my numbers reduced ,  and those few men I have almost no better than so many Frenchmen ,  though when they were in good form ,  I tell you ,  herald ,  I thought three Frenchmen walked on every pair of English legs . 
yet ,  forgive me ,  God ,  That I do brag thus . 	but God forgive me for bragging . 
go therefore ,  tell thy master: here I am . 	anyway ,  go tell your master I am here . 
I shall deliver so . 	I’ll deliver the message . 
thanks to your Highness . 	I thank your Highness . 
I hope they will not come upon us now . 	I hope they don’t attack us now . 
we are in God’s hand ,  brother ,  not in theirs . 	we’re in God’s hands ,  brother ,  not in theirs . 
march to the bridge . 	march to the bridge . 
It now draws toward night . 	night is approaching . 
tut ,  I have the best armor of the world . 	I have the best armor in the world . 
would it were day ! 	I wish it were day ! 
you have an excellent armor ,  but let my horse have his due . 	you have wonderful armor ,  but give my horse his due . 
It is the best horse of Europe . 	It is the best horse in Europe . 
will it never be morning ? 	will it never be morning ? 
my lord of Orléans ,  and my Lord High Constable ,  you talk of horse and armor ? 	my lord of Orléans ,  and my lord high Constable ,  are you talking about horses and armor ? 
you are as well provided of both as any prince in the world . 	you are as well provided in both respects as any prince in the world . 
what a long night is this ! 	what a long night this is ! 
I will not change my horse with any that treads but on four pasterns . 	I will not trade my horse for any that walks on four legs . 
he bounds from the earth ,  as if his entrails were hairs ,  le cheval volant ,  the Pegasus ,  qui a les narines de feu . 	he leaps from the ground as if his insides were light as hairs . 
the earth sings when he touches it . 	the earth sings when he touches it . 
the basest horn of his hoof is more musical than the pipe of Hermes . 	the lowest part of his hoof is more musical than Pan’s pipe . 
he’s of the color of the nutmeg . 	he’s the color of nutmeg . 
and of the heat of the ginger . 	and hot as ginger . 
It is a beast for Perseus . 	he is an animal worthy of Perseus . 
he is indeed a horse ,  and all other jades you may call beasts . 	he is indeed worthy of the name  “ horse ,  ”  and you can call all the rest beasts . 
Indeed ,  my lord ,  it is a most absolute and excellent horse . 	Indeed ,  my lord ,  he is a perfectly wonderful horse . 
It is the prince of palfreys . 	he is the prince of horses . 
his neigh is like the bidding of a monarch ,  and his countenance enforces homage . 	his neigh is like a monarch’s command . 
no more ,  cousin . 	enough ,  cousin . 
nay ,  the man hath no wit that cannot ,  from the rising of the lark to the lodging of the lamb ,  vary deserved praise on my palfrey . 	no ,  the man who cannot extol the virtues of my horse from dawn to dusk is not particularly clever . 
It is a theme as fluent as the sea . 	It’s a subject as worthy of endless discussion as the changing sea . 
turn the sands into eloquent tongues ,  and my horse is argument for them all . 	If each grain of sand had a tongue to eulogize ,  my horse would be a topic for them all . 
tis a subject for a sovereign to reason on ,  and for a sovereign’s sovereign to ride on ,  and for the world ,  familiar to us and unknown ,  to lay apart their particular functions and wonder at him . 	he is a subject for a king to contemplate ,  and for a king’s king to ride on ,  and for the world at large—both friend and stranger—to stop whatever they are doing and marvel at . 
I once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus:  “ Wonder of nature— ”   I have heard a sonnet begin so to one’s mistress . 	I once wrote a sonnet in his praise which began ,   “ Wonder of nature— ”  I have heard a sonnet to one’s mistress that began like that . 
then did they imitate that which I composed to my courser ,  for my horse is my mistress . 	then the writer imitated the one I composed to my steed ,  for my horse is my mistress . 
your mistress bears well . 	your mistress is a good mount . 
so perhaps did yours . 	so ,  perhaps ,  did yours . 
mine was not bridled . 	mine wasn’t wearing a bridle . 
oh ,  then belike she was old and gentle ,  and you rode ,  like a kern of Ireland ,  your French hose off and in your straight strossers . 	oh ,  then I guess she was old and gentle ,  and you rode barelegged ,  like an Irish yokel . 
you have good judgment in horsemanship . 	you’re a good judge of horsemanship . 
be warned by me ,  then: they that ride so ,  and ride not warily ,  fall into foul bogs . 	take a tip from me ,  then . 
I had rather have my horse to my mistress . 	I’d rather have my horse than a mistress . 
I had as lief have my mistress a jade . 	I’d prefer to keep my mistress rather than some lame horse . 
I tell thee ,  Constable ,  my mistress wears his own hair . 	I’ll tell you this ,  Constable ,  my mistress has his own hair . 
I could make as true a boast as that if I had a sow to my mistress . 	I could make the same boast even if I had a pig as my mistress . 
le chien est retourné à son propre vomissement ,  et la truie lavée au bourbier .  ”  Thou mak’st use of anything . 	the dog returns to its own vomit ,  and the newly washed sow to its mud puddle .  ”  You’d take anything for a mistress . 
yet do I not use my horse for my mistress ,  or any such proverb so little kin to the purpose . 	at least I don’t have a horse for my mistress—or a saying so beside the point . 
my Lord Constable ,  the armor that I saw in your tent tonight ,  are those stars or suns upon it ? 	my Lord Constable ,  are those stars or suns I saw on the armor in your tent tonight ? 
stars ,  my lord . 	stars ,  my lord . 
some of them will fall tomorrow ,  I hope . 	I hope some will fall off tomorrow . 
and yet my sky shall not want . 	and yet I’ll still have plenty . 
that may be ,  for you bear a many superfluously ,  and ’twere more honor some were away . 	no doubt ,  for you wear too many in the first place ,  and it might be more seemly to make do with fewer . 
ev'n as your horse bears your praises—who would trot as well were some of your brags dismounted . 	yes ,  like your horse ,  who ,  staggering under your boasts ,  would trot more easily if some of them dismounted . 
would I were able to load him with his desert ! 	I only wish I could load him up with all the praise he deserves ! 
will it never be day ? 	oh ,  will it never be day ? 
I will not say so ,  for fear I should be faced out of my way . 	I’d say the same thing ,  but I’m afraid I’d be faced out of my way . 
tis midnight . 	It’s midnight . 
I’ll go arm myself . 	I’ll go put my armor on . 
the Dauphin longs for morning . 	the Dauphin really wants it to be morning . 
he longs to eat the English . 	he wants to eat the English . 
swear by her foot ,  that she may tread out the oath . 	swear by her foot ,  so she can stamp out the oath . 
he is simply the most active gentleman of France . 	he’s definitely the most active gentleman of France . 
doing is activity ,  and he will still be doing . 	performing is activity ,  and he is always doing that . 
he never did harm that I heard of . 	he never did harm that I heard of . 
nor will do none tomorrow . 	and he’s not going to do any tomorrow . 
he will keep that good name still . 	that part of his reputation will stand . 
I know him to be valiant . 	I know him to be valiant . 
I was told that by one that knows him better than you . 	I was told that by one who knows him better than you . 
what’s he ? 	who was that ? 
marry ,  he told me so himself; and he said he cared not who knew it . 	why ,  he told me so himself ,  and he said he didn’t care who knew it . 
he needs not . 	he doesn’t have to care . 
It is no hidden virtue in him . 	his virtue is not hidden . 
tis a hooded valor ,  and when it appears ,  it will bate . 	his courage is hidden ,  and when it is revealed ,  it will shrink . 
Ill will never said well . 	Ill will never prompted anything well said . 
have at the very eye of that proverb with  “ A pox of the devil .  ”   You are the better at proverbs ,  by how much  “ A fool’s bolt is soon shot .  ”   You have shot over . 	I’ll go straight for that proverb with  “ To hell with the devil .  ”  You are better at proverbs than I am by as much as  “ A fool shoots quickly and overshoots his mark .  ”  You have overshot . 
tis not the first time you were overshot . 	I’ve outshot you ,  and not for the first time . 
my Lord High Constable ,  the English lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents . 	my Lord High Constable ,  the English lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents . 
who hath measured the ground ? 	who measured the ground ? 
the Lord Grandpré . 	the Lord Grandpré . 
alas ,  poor Harry of England ! 	poor Harry of England ! 
he longs not for the dawning as we do . 	he doesn’t long for the dawn as we do . 
what a wretched and peevish fellow is this king of England to mope with his fat - brained followers so far out of his knowledge . 	what a miserable and obstinate fellow this king of England is ,  to blunder with his fat - headed followers so far beyond his capacity . 
If the English had any apprehension ,  they would run away . 	If the English had any sense ,  they would run away . 
that they lack ,  for if their heads had any intellectual armor ,  they could never wear such heavy head - pieces . 	If there were anything inside their heads ,  they could never wear such heavy helmets . 
that island of England breeds very valiant creatures . 	that island of England breeds very valiant creatures . 
their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage . 	their hounds are unequaled in courage . 
foolish curs ,  that run winking into the mouth of a Russian bear and have their heads crushed like rotten apples . 	foolish dogs ,  blindly running straight toward a Russian bear only to have their heads crushed like rotten apples . 
you may as well say ,  that’s a valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion . 	you might just as well say ,   “ That’s a valiant flea that dares to eat its breakfast on the lip of a lion .  ”  Yes ,  exactly . 
just ,  just; and the men do sympathize with the mastiffs in robustious and rough coming on ,  leaving their wits with their wives . 	and the men resemble their English hounds in their loud ,  showy ferocity ,  too ,  leaving their brains behind with their wives . 
and then give them great meals of beef and iron and steel ,  they will eat like wolves and fight like devils . 	give them hefty meals of beef and iron and steel ,  and they will eat like wolves and fight like devils . 
ay ,  but these English are shrewdly out of beef . 	yes ,  but these English are seriously short of beef . 
then shall we find tomorrow they have only stomachs to eat and none to fight . 	then tomorrow we’ll find that they feel only like eating ,  not like fighting . 
now is it time to arm . 	It’s time to put our armor on . 
come ,  shall we about it ? 	shall we get started ? 
It is now two o'clock . 	It’s two o'clock now . 
but ,  let me see ,  by ten We shall have each a hundred Englishmen . 	but let me see ,  by ten we shall each have captured a hundred Englishmen . 
now entertain conjecture of a time When creeping murmur and the poring dark Fills the wide vessel of the universe . 	now summon up the image of stealthy murmurs and engulfing darkness filling the wide vessel of the universe . 
oh ,  now ,  who will behold The royal captain of this ruined band	he bids them good morning with a modest smile and calls
where is my gracious lord of Canterbury ? 	where is my gracious lord of Canterbury ? 
not here in presence . 	he’s not here . 
send for him ,  good uncle . 	send for him ,  dear uncle . 
shall we call in th' ambassador ,  my liege ? 	shall we call in the ambassador ,  my liege ? 
not yet ,  my cousin . 	not yet ,  cousin . 
we would be resolved ,  Before we hear him ,  of some things of weight That task our thoughts concerning us and France . 	before I hear him ,  I want to decide some important issues that are on my mind concerning my throne and France . 
god and his angels guard your sacred throne And make you long become it . 	may God and his angels guard your sacred throne and grant that you dignify it for a long time . 
sure we thank you . 	thank you ,  I’m sure . 
my learnèd lord ,  we pray you to proceed And justly and religiously unfold Why the law Salic that they have in France Or should or should not bar us in our claim . 	my learned lord ,  kindly explain to us the legal and religious grounds for why this French Salic law either should or shouldn’t bar me in my claim . 
and God forbid ,  my dear and faithful lord ,  That you should fashion ,  wrest ,  or bow your reading ,  Or nicely charge your understanding soul With opening titles miscreate ,  whose right Suits not in native colors with the truth; For God doth know how many now in health Shall drop their blood in approbation	for God knows how many healthy men will shed their blood in support of whatever you persuade me to do . 
let him cry ,   “ Praise and glory on his head !  ”  For forth he goes and visits all his host ,  Bids them good morrow with a modest smile ,  And calls them brothers ,  friends ,  and countrymen . 	them brothers ,  friends ,  and countrymen . 
upon his royal face there is no note How dread an army hath enrounded him ,  Nor doth he dedicate one jot of color Unto the weary and all - watchèd night ,  But freshly looks and overbears attaint With cheerful semblance and sweet majesty ,  That every wretch ,  pining and pale before ,  Beholding him ,  plucks comfort from his looks . 	there is no indication of the mighty army that surrounds them in his expression ,  nor has the long ,  sleepless night robbed his face of an ounce of color . 
gloucester ,  ’tis true that we are in great danger . 	gloucester ,  it’s true that we are in great danger . 
the greater therefore should our courage be . 	but our courage should only be the greater for that . 
good morrow ,  brother Bedford . 	good morning ,  brother Bedford . 
god almighty ,  There is some soul of goodness in things evil ,  Would men observingly distill it out . 	god Almighty ,  there must be some essential goodness even in evil ,  if men would only look for it . 
for our bad neighbor makes us early stirrers ,  Which is both healthful and good husbandry . 	In our case ,  our bad neighbors over their make us early risers ,  a healthy and sensible thing to be . 
besides ,  they are our outward consciences And preachers to us all ,  admonishing That we should dress us fairly for our end . 	besides ,  they act as outward consciences and preachers to us all ,  a visible reminder that we should prepare ourselves for death . 
thus may we gather honey from the weed And make a moral of the devil himself . 	think like that ,  and you’ll manage to get honey out of a common weed and find a moral lesson in the devil himself . 
good morrow ,  old Sir Thomas Erpingham . 	good morning ,  old Sir Thomas Erpingham ! 
a good soft pillow for that good white head Were better than a churlish turf of France . 	a nice ,  soft pillow would be a more suitable place to lay that good white head than France’s hard ,  cold ground . 
so the spirit is eased . 	It eases the spirit . 
and when the mind is quickened ,  out of doubt ,  The organs ,  though defunct and dead before ,  Break up their drowsy grave and newly move ,  With casted slough and fresh legerity . 	and when the mind is engaged ,  the rest of the body ,  dead and dull before ,  wakes up and comes to life with a new nimbleness and sensitivity ,  like a snake shedding its dead skin . 
lend me thy cloak ,  Sir Thomas . 	lend me your cloak ,  Sir Thomas . 
we shall ,  my liege . 	we shall ,  my liege . 
shall I attend your Grace ? 	shall I accompany your Grace ? 
no ,  my good knight . 	no ,  my good knight . 
go with my brothers to my lords of England . 	go with my brothers to my English peers . 
I and my bosom must debate awhile ,  And then I would no other company . 	I need to be alone with my thoughts for a while and don’t want any company . 
the Lord in heaven bless thee ,  noble Harry ! 	the Lord in heaven bless you ,  noble Harry ! 
a friend . 	a friend . 
discuss unto me: art thou officer or art thou base ,  common ,  and popular ? 	or are you low ,  vulgar ,  and of the common people ? 
I am a gentleman of a company . 	I am a gentleman of a company . 
trail’st thou the puissant pike ? 	do you carry a pike ? 
even so . 	exactly . 
what are you ? 	what about you ? 
as good a gentleman as the emperor . 	I’m as good a gentleman as the emperor . 
then you are a better than the king . 	then you’re a better man than the king . 
the king’s a bawcock ,  and a heart of gold ,  A lad of life ,  an imp of fame ,  Of parents good ,  of fist most valiant . 	the king’s a dear boy with a heart of gold ,  he’s a lively lad ,  a wag ,  born of fine parents ,  good with his fists . 
I kiss his dirty shoe ,  and from heartstring I love the lovely bully . 	I kiss his dirty shoe ,  and from the bottom of my heart I love the lovely boy . 
what is thy name ? 	what is your name ? 
harry le Roy . 	harry le Roy . 
le Roy ? 	le Roy ? 
a Cornish name . 	that’s a Cornish name . 
art thou of Cornish crew ? 	are you with a Cornish company ? 
no ,  I am a Welshman . 	no ,  I am a Welshman . 
know’st thou Fluellen ? 	do you know Fluellen ? 
yes . 	yes . 
tell him I’ll knock his leek about his pate Upon Saint Davy’s day . 	tell him I’ll take the leek out of his hat on Saint Davy’s Day and slap his head with it . 
do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day ,  lest he knock that about yours . 	you’d better not wear your dagger in your cap that day ,  or he might slap your head with it . 
art thou his friend ? 	are you his friend ? 
and his kinsman too . 	yes ,  and his relative ,  too . 
the  I thank you . 	thank you . 
god be with you . 	god be with you . 
my name is Pistol called . 	my name is Pistol . 
It sorts well with your fierceness . 	the name suits your fierceness . 
captain Fluellen . 	captain Fluellen ! 
It is the greatest admiration in the universal world when the true and aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the wars is not kept . 	It never ceases to amaze me the way people ignore the correct ,  traditional principles and rules of war . 
If you would take the pains but to examine the wars of Pompey the Great ,  you shall find ,  I warrant you ,  that there is no tiddle toddle nor pibble babble in Pompey’s camp . 	If you would take the trouble to study the tactics of Pompey the Great ,  I can tell you that you would find no tittle - tattle or pibble - pabble in Pompey’s camp . 
I warrant you ,  you shall find the ceremonies of the wars and the cares of it and the forms of it and the sobriety of it and the modesty of it to be otherwise . 	I tell you ,  you would find the rituals of war and ,  I promise you ,  its ceremonies and its solicitudes and its forms and its gravity and its discipline all to be quite counter to all this noise . 
why ,  the enemy is loud . 	but the enemy is loud . 
you hear him all night . 	you can hear them all night long . 
If the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating coxcomb ,  is it meet ,  think you ,  that we should also ,  look you ,  be an ass and a fool and a prating coxcomb ,  in your own conscience ,  now ? 	and if the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating idiot ,  does that mean ,  you think ,  that we should also be an ass and a fool and a prating idiot ? 
I will speak lower . 	think about it . 
I pray you and beseech you that you will . 	I will lower my voice . 
though it appear a little out of fashion ,  There is much care and valor in this Welshman . 	though he seems a little old - fashioned ,  there is much care and courage in this Welshman . 
brother John Bates ,  is not that the morning which breaks yonder ? 	brother John Bates ,  isn’t that dawn breaking over there ? 
we see yonder the beginning of the day ,  but I think we shall never see the end of it . —Who goes there ? 	that’s the beginning of the day we see ,  but I don’t think we’ll see the end of it . —Who goes there ? 
a friend . 	a friend . 
under what captain serve you ? 	what captain do you serve ? 
under Sir Thomas Erpingham . 	sir Thomas Erpingham . 
a good old commander and a most kind gentleman . 	a veteran commander and a very kind gentleman . 
I pray you ,  what thinks he of our estate ? 	tell me ,  what does he think of our situation ? 
even as men wracked upon a sand ,  that look to be washed off the next tide . 	we’re men beached on the sand ,  hoping to be washed out by the next tide . 
he hath not told his thought to the king ? 	he hasn’t told this to the king ,  has he ? 
the violet smells to him as it doth to me . 	the violet smells to him the same as it does to me . 
his ceremonies laid by ,  in his nakedness he appears but a man ,  and though his affections are higher mounted than ours ,  yet when they stoop ,  they stoop with the like wing . 	and though his feelings may be pitched higher than ours ,  when they plummet ,  they plummet that much farther . 
therefore ,  when he sees reason of fears as we do ,  his fears ,  out of doubt ,  be of the same relish as ours are . 	therefore ,  when he has reason to fear ,  as we do ,  his fears are without question of the same order . 
yet ,  in reason ,  no man should possess him with any appearance of fear ,  lest he ,  by showing it ,  should dishearten his army . 	still ,  it stands to reason that he mustn’t betray his fear ,  as it might dishearten his army . 
he may show what outward courage he will ,  but I believe ,  as cold a night as ’tis ,  he could wish himself in Thames up to the neck; and so I would he were ,  and I by him ,  at all adventures ,  so we were quit here . 	he can act as brave as he wants ,  but I believe on a cold night like this he wishes he were neck - deep in the Thames ,  and I wish he were ,  too ,  and I with him ,  whatever the danger ,  so long as we were far away from here . 
by my troth ,  I will speak my conscience of the king . 	I’ll tell you truly what I think about the king in my heart . 
I think he would not wish himself anywhere but where he is . 	I don’t think he wants to be anywhere but where he is . 
I dare say you love him not so ill to wish him here alone ,  howsoever you speak this to feel other men’s minds . 	oh ,  I’m sure you don’t dislike him so much as to wish he were here alone ,  even though you say this to find out how the rest of us feel . 
methinks I could not die anywhere so contented as in the king’s company ,  his cause being just and his quarrel honorable . 	I don’t think there’s anywhere I’d rather die than in the king’s company ,  as his cause is just and honorable . 
that’s more than we know . 	that’s more than we know . 
If his cause be wrong ,  our obedience to the king wipes the crime of it out of us . 	If his cause is wrong ,  our obedience to the king clears us of responsibility for it . 
but if the cause be not good ,  the king himself hath a heavy reckoning to make ,  when all those legs and arms and heads ,  chopped off in a battle ,  shall join together at the latter day ,  and cry all ,   “ We died at such a place ,  ”  some swearing ,  some crying for a surgeon ,  some upon their wives left poor behind them ,  some upon the debts they owe ,  some upon their children rawly left . 	but if the cause is not just ,  the king himself will have a lot to answer for ,  when all those legs and arms and heads chopped off in battle shall join together on Judgment Day crying ,   “ We died at such and such a place .  ”  Some will be swearing ,  some crying for a surgeon ,  some for the wives that are destitute without them ,  some about the debts they owed ,  some for their children left unprovided for . 
I am afeard there are few die well that die in a battle ,  for how can they charitably dispose of anything ,  when blood is their argument ? 	I think few die well who die in battle . 
the king is not bound to answer the particular endings of his soldiers ,  the father of his son ,  nor the master of his servant ,  for they purpose not their death ,  when they purpose their services . 	the father and the master and the king didn’t order their subordinates' deaths when they ordered their services . 
besides ,  there is no king ,  be his cause never so spotless ,  if it come to the arbitrament of swords ,  can try it out with all unspotted soldiers . 	besides ,  there’s no king ,  however pure his cause ,  who ,  if it comes to a trial by combat ,  can rely on using completely blameless soldiers . 
now ,  if these men have defeated the law and outrun native punishment ,  though they can outstrip men ,  they have no wings to fly from God . 	even if these men have escaped the law and punishment at home ,  they cannot escape God . 
where they feared the death ,  they have borne life away; and where they would be safe ,  they perish . 	when they feared death ,  they escaped with their lives; and now where they imagine they’re safe ,  they perish . 
then ,  if they die unprovided ,  no more is the king guilty of their damnation than he was before guilty of those impieties for the which they are now visited . 	so ,  if they die unprepared ,  the king is no more guilty of their damnation than he was guilty of the earlier crimes they’re finally being punished for . 
every subject’s duty is the king’s ,  but every subject’s soul is his own . 	every subject’s duty is the king’s ,  but every subject’s soul is his own . 
therefore should every soldier in the wars do as every sick man in his bed: wash every mote out of his conscience . 	therefore ,  every soldier should do as any man who is sick in his bed would do: clear his conscience of any stain . 
and ,  dying so ,  death is to him advantage; or not dying ,  the time was blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained . 	then if he dies ,  his death serves him . 
tis certain ,  every man that dies ill ,  the ill upon his own head . 	It’s clear ,  every man must take responsibility for the manner of his own death . 
the king is not to answer it . 	the king is not responsible for it . 
I do not desire he should answer for me ,  and yet I determine to fight lustily for him . 	I don’t expect him to answer for me ,  and yet I’m determined to fight vigorously for him . 
I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed . 	I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed . 
If I live to see it ,  I will never trust his word after . 	If I live to see it ,  I’ll never trust his word again . 
you pay him then . 	yeah ,  right ,  go get him . 
that’s a perilous shot out of an elder gun ,  that a poor and private displeasure can do against a monarch . 	that’s a lame threat from a toy gun ,  a poor individual’s private displeasure with a monarch . 
you may as well go about to turn the sun to ice with fanning in his face with a peacock’s feather . 	you may as well try to turn the sun to ice by fanning its face with a peacock feather . 
you’ll  “ never trust his word after .  ”  Come ,  ’tis a foolish saying . 	you’ll  “ never trust his word again .  ”  Come on ,  that was a stupid thing to say . 
your reproof is something too round . 	your scolding is somewhat overblown . 
I should be angry with you if the time were convenient . 	I’d be angry with you if the occasion allowed . 
let it be a quarrel between us ,  if you live . 	let it be a quarrel between us ,  if you live . 
I embrace it . 	I’m game . 
how shall I know thee again ? 	how will I recognize you in the future ? 
give me any gage of thine ,  and I will wear it in my bonnet . 	give me some trinket of yours ,  and I will wear it in my hat . 
then ,  if ever thou dar’st acknowledge it ,  I will make it my quarrel . 	then ,  if you dare to acknowledge it ,  I’ll take up my quarrel with you . 
there . 	here . 
this will I also wear in my cap . 	I’ll also wear this in my cap . 
If ever thou come to me and say ,  after tomorrow ,   “ This is my glove ,  ”  by this hand I will take thee a box on the ear . 	If you come to me after tomorrow and say ,   “ That’s my glove ,  ”  I swear by this hand ,  I will take it and give you a box on the ear . 
If ever I live to see it ,  I will challenge it . 	If I ever see it ,  I will challenge you . 
thou dar’st as well be hanged . 	you may as well undertake to be hanged . 
well ,  I will do it ,  though I take thee in the king’s company . 	I’ll do it even if I find you in the company of the king himself . 
keep thy word . 	keep your word . 
fare thee well . 	farewell . 
Indeed ,  the French may lay twenty French crowns to one they will beat us ,  for they bear them on their shoulders . 	Indeed ,  the French can bet twenty French crowns to one that they’ll beat us ,  they have such an army . 
but it is no English treason to cut French crowns ,  and tomorrow the king himself will be a clipper . 	but it’s no treason for an Englishman to cut off a French crown—a head ,  I mean—and tomorrow the king himself will do some snipping . 
of what your reverence shall incite us to . 	to wage war . 
therefore take heed how you impawn our person ,  How you awake our sleeping sword of war . 	I charge you ,  in the name of God ,  be careful what you say . 
under this conjuration ,  speak ,  my lord ,  For we will hear ,  note ,  and believe in heart That what you speak is in your conscience washed As pure as sin with baptism . 	with this in mind ,  speak ,  my lord . 
then hear me ,  gracious sovereign ,  and you peers That owe yourselves ,  your lives ,  and services To this imperial throne . 	then hear me ,  gracious sovereign ,  and all you peers who owe your lives and duty to this imperial throne . 
upon the king ! 	upon the king ! 
let us our lives ,  our souls ,  our debts ,  our careful wives ,  our children ,  and our sins lay on the king ! 	let’s lay everything upon the king: our lives ,  our souls ,  our debts ,  our anxious wives ,  our children ,  and our sins .  ”  I must bear responsibility for all of it . 
we must bear all . 	what a painful condition responsibility is . 
o hard condition ,  Twin - born with greatness ,  subject to the breath Of every fool ,  whose sense no more can feel But his own wringing . 	It goes along with being born to greatness ,  but it makes you get badmouthed by every fool who only has his own suffering to care about . 
what infinite heart’s ease Must kings neglect that private men enjoy ? 	what infinite peace do king’s give up that private men enjoy ? 
and what have kings that privates have not too ,  Save ceremony ,  save general ceremony ? 	what do kings have that private men do not ,  besides the pomp of their position ? 
and what art thou ,  thou idol ceremony ? 	and what is this useless ceremony of kings ? 
what kind of god art thou ,  that suffer’st more Of mortal griefs than do thy worshippers ? 	what kind of god is ceremony ,  which suffers more than its worshippers do ? 
what are thy comings in ? 	what income ,  what profit does it bring in ? 
o ceremony ,  show me but thy worth ! 	oh ,  ceremony ,  only show me your value ! 
what is thy soul of adoration ? 	why are you adored ? 
art thou aught else but place ,  degree ,  and form ,  Creating awe and fear in other men ,  Wherein thou art less happy ,  being feared ,  Than they in fearing ? 	you’re less happy ,  being feared ,  than they are in fearing you . 
what drink’st thou oft ,  instead of homage sweet ,  But poisoned flattery ? 	what do you get to drink ,  instead of sweet obedience ,  but poisonous flattery ? 
oh ,  be sick ,  great greatness ,  And bid thy ceremony give thee cure ! 	try being sick ,  great greatness ,  and see if ceremony can cure you ! 
think’st thou the fiery fever will go out With titles blown from adulation ? 	do you think fiery fever can be put out by the windy puff of titles ? 
will it give place to flexure and low bending ? 	will it be chased away by bowing and scraping ? 
canst thou ,  when thou command’st the beggar’s knee ,  Command the health of it ? 	you can command a beggar to bow on bended knee ,  but can you take possession of his health ? 
no ,  thou proud dream ,  That play’st so subtly with a king’s repose . 	no ,  vain illusion ,  so intricately bound up with a king’s rest . 
and ,  but for ceremony ,  such a wretch ,  Winding up days with toil and nights with sleep ,  Had the forehand and vantage of a king . 	dusk and all night long sleeps in peace . 
my lord ,  your nobles ,  jealous of your absence ,  Seek through your camp to find you . 	my lord ,  your noble subjects are looking for you all over the camp . 
good old knight ,  Collect them all together at my tent . 	good old knight ,  gather them all together at my tent . 
I’ll be before thee . 	I’ll meet you there . 
I shall do’t ,  my lord . 	consider it done ,  my lord . 
o God of battles ,  steel my soldiers' hearts . 	oh God of battles ,  bolster my soldiers' courage . 
possess them not with fear . 	don’t let them know fear . 
take from them now The sense of reck'ning ere th' opposèd numbers Pluck their hearts from them . 	rob them of the ability to count before the numbers against them overwhelm their courage . 
not today ,  O Lord ,  Oh ,  not today ,  think not upon the fault My father made in compassing the crown . 	and just for today ,  Oh ,  Lord ,  just today don’t think of the crime my father committed in seizing the crown ! 
I Richard’s body have interrèd anew ,  And on it have bestowed more contrite tears Than from it issued forcèd drops of blood . 	I’ve transferred Richard’s body to a new grave and on it poured more tears of remorse than it has shed drops of blood . 
five hundred poor I have in yearly pay ,  Who twice a day their withered hands hold up Toward heaven to pardon blood . 	I’ve hired five hundred almsmen to hold up their withered hands to heaven ,  praying for my pardon twice a day throughout the year . 
and I have built Two chantries where the sad and solemn priests Sing still for Richard’s soul . 	and I’ve built two chapels where solemn priests sing continually for Richard’s soul . 
more will I do— Though all that I can do is nothing worth ,  Since that my penitence comes after all ,  Imploring pardon . 	I will do more ,  though nothing I can do is any good since this remorse comes after the crime ,  asking for pardon . 
my liege . 	my liege . 
my brother Gloucester’s voice . —Ay ,  I know thy errand . 	my brother Gloucester’s voice ? 
I will go with thee . 	I’ll go with you . 
the day ,  my friends ,  and all things stay for me . 	the day ,  my friends ,  and everything await me . 
the sun doth gild our armor . 	the sun glints off our armor . 
up ,  my lords . 	awake ,  my lords ! 
now ,  my Lord Constable ? 	Is it time ,  my Lord Constable ? 
hark how our steeds for present service neigh . 	listen to our horses neighing ,  longing to be working . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
what ,  will you have them weep our horses' blood ? 	what ,  you want them to weep our horses' blood ? 
how shall we then behold their natural tears ? 	then how will we see their own natural tears ? 
the English are embattled ,  you French peers . 	the English are in the field ,  French lords . 
to horse ,  you gallant princes ,  straight to horse . 	to our horses ,  you gallant princes . 
what’s to say ? 	what’s there to say ? 
then let the trumpets sound The tucket sonance and the note to mount ,  For our approach shall so much dare the field That England shall couch down in fear and yield . 	our advance will so dazzle the enemy that England will cower in fear and surrender . 
why do you stay so long ,  my lords of France ? 	what are you waiting for ,  lords of France ? 
yond island carrions ,  desperate of their bones ,  Ill - favoredly become the morning field . 	those island - bred skeletons ,  terrified for their bones ,  are an offensive sight on the morning field . 
big Mars seems bankrupt in their beggared host And faintly through a rusty beaver peeps . 	the horsemen stand frozen like candlesticks ,  torches in their hands . 
they have said their prayers ,  and they stay for death . 	meanwhile ,  their  They’ve said their prayers ,  and now they wait for death . 
shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits ,  And give their fasting horses provender ,  And after fight with them ? 	shall we go send them food and fresh clothing and feed their starving horses before we fight them ? 
on ,  to the field ! 	to the field ! 
I will the banner from a trumpet take And use it for my haste . 	I’ll take the banner from a trumpeter and use that . 
come ,  come away . 	come ,  let’s be off ! 
the sun is high ,  and we outwear the day . 	the sun is up and we’re wasting the day ! 
where is the king ? 	where is the king ? 
the king himself is rode to view their battle . 	the king rode out alone to view their troops . 
of fighting men they have full threescore thousand . 	they have fully sixty thousand fighting men . 
there’s five to one . 	that’s five to one . 
besides ,  they all are fresh . 	besides ,  they’re fresh . 
god’s arm strike with us ! 	may God’s arm strike on our side ! 
tis a fearful odds . 	these are frightening odds . 
god be wi' you ,  princes all . 	god be with all of you ,  princes . 
I’ll to my charge . 	I’ll go and join my men . 
farewell ,  good Salisbury ,  and good luck go with thee . 	farewell ,  good Salisbury; and may good luck go with you . 
farewell ,  kind lord . 	farewell ,  kind lord . 
fight valiantly today . 	fight valiantly today . 
and yet I do thee wrong to mind thee of it ,  For thou art framed of the firm truth of valor . 	but then I do you wrong to say as much ,  since you are the very embodiment of bravery . 
he is as full of valor as of kindness ,  Princely in both . 	he is as full of courage as of kindness ,  princely in both . 
oh ,  that we now had here But one ten thousand of those men in England That do no work today . 	oh ,  if only we had with us here ten thousand of those men back home in England who aren’t working today . 
what’s he that wishes so ? 	who wishes that ? 
my cousin Westmoreland ? 	my cousin Westmoreland ? 
no ,  my fair cousin . 	no ,  my dear cousin . 
If we are marked to die ,  we are enough To do our country loss; and if to live ,  The fewer men ,  the greater share of honor . 	If we are slated to die ,  the fewer ,  the better for our country ,  and if we’re slated to live ,  the fewer men ,  the greater the share of honor for each of us . 
god’s will ,  I pray thee wish not one man more . 	In God’s name ,  I beg you not to wish for one more man . 
by Jove ,  I am not covetous for gold Nor care I who doth feed upon my cost; It yearns me not if men my garments wear; Such outward things dwell not in my desires . 	by God ,  I am not selfish when it comes to money: I don’t care who eats at my expense . 
but if it be a sin to covet honor ,  I am the most offending soul alive . 	but if it is a sin to be selfish about honor ,  I am the most guilty soul alive . 
no ,  faith ,  my coz ,  wish not a man from England . 	no ,  my cousin ,  don’t wish that even one man who is now in England were here instead . 
god’s peace ,  I would not lose so great an honor As one man more ,  methinks ,  would share from me ,  For the best hope I have . 	by God ,  I wouldn’t lose as much honor as a single man more would cost me ,  I think—not even if it meant giving up my best hope for victory . 
oh ,  do not wish one more ! 	oh ,  do not wish one more ! 
his passport shall be made ,  And crowns for convoy put into his purse . 	he will be given safe conduct and money for his passage home . 
we would not die in that man’s company That fears his fellowship to die with us . 	we would not want to die in the company of a man who fears to die with us . 
he that shall see this day ,  and live old age ,  Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbors And say ,   “ Tomorrow is Saint Crispian .  ”  Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars ,  And say ,   “ These wounds I had on Crispin’s day .  ” 	he who survives this day and lives to see old age shall yearly entertain his neighbors on the eve ,  saying ,   “ Tomorrow is
all things are ready if our minds be so . 	we’re ready if our minds are ready . 
perish the man whose mind is backward now ! 	let any man perish who isn’t ready now ! 
thou dost not wish more help from England ,  coz ? 	you don’t wish we had more help from England anymore ,  cousin ? 
god be with you all . 	god be with you all . 
tucket Once more I come to know of thee ,  King Harry ,  If for thy ransom thou wilt now compound ,  Before thy most assurèd overthrow . 	once more I come to ask you ,  King Harry ,  if you’re ready to negotiate your ransom before your certain defeat . 
for certainly thou art so near the gulf Thou needs must be englutted . 	for assuredly ,  you are so near the abyss that you’re bound to be swallowed up . 
besides ,  in mercy ,  The constable desires thee thou wilt mind Thy followers of repentance ,  that their souls May make a peaceful and a sweet retire From off these fields where ,  wretches ,  their poor bodies Must lie and fester . 	moreover ,  out of mercy ,  the Constable urges you to remind your men to make their peace with God and repent ,  so that their souls may depart sweetly and peacefully from these fields where ,  poor wretches ,  their bodies will likely fall and fester . 
who hath sent thee now ? 	who sent you this time ? 
the constable of France . 	the Constable of France . 
I pray thee ,  bear my former answer back . 	be good enough to take back the same answer I gave before . 
bid them achieve me and then sell my bones . 	tell them to capture me ,  then sell my bones . 
the man that once did sell the lion’s skin While the beast lived was killed with hunting him . 	the man that once sold the skin of a lion while the beast still lived died hunting him . 
a many of our bodies shall no doubt Find native graves ,  upon the which ,  I trust ,  Shall witness live in brass of this day’s work . 	and on their graves ,  I trust ,  the story of this day’s work will be written in brass . 
and those that leave their valiant bones in France ,  Dying like men though buried in your dunghills ,  They shall be famed; for there the sun shall greet them And draw their honors reeking up to heaven ,  Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime , 	and those who leave their valiant bones in France ,  dying like men though buried in your dunghills—they’ll be remembered ,  too . 
besides ,  their writers say ,  King Pepin ,  which deposèd Childeric ,  Did ,  as heir general ,  being descended Of Blithild ,  which was daughter to King Clothair ,  Make claim and title to the crown of France . 	besides ,  according to the French historians ,  King Pepin ,  who deposed Childeric ,  based his own claim to the crown of France on his descent from Blithild ,  the daughter of King Clothair . 
hugh Capet also ,  who usurped the crown Of Charles the duke of Lorraine ,  sole heir male Of the true line and stock of Charles the Great ,  To find his title with some shows of truth ,  Though in pure truth it was corrupt and naught ,  Conveyed himself as th' heir to th' Lady Lingare ,  Daughter to Charlemagne ,  who was the son To Lewis the Emperor ,  and Lewis the son Of Charles the Great . 	another case: Hugh Capet ,  who usurped the crown from Charles the duke of Lorraine—sole male heir in a direct line from Charles the Great—passed himself off as heir to Lady Lingare ,  daughter of Charlemagne ,  who was the son of Lewis the Emperor (who was the son of Charles the Great) ,  in order to give his claim to the throne more validity (though ,  in fact ,  the claim was completely false and worthless) . 
also King Lewis the Tenth ,  Who was sole heir to the usurper Capet ,  Could not keep quiet in his conscience ,  Wearing the crown of France ,  till satisfied That fair Queen Isabel ,  his grandmother ,  Was lineal of the Lady Ermengare ,  Daughter to Charles the foresaid duke of Lorraine ,  By the which marriage the line of Charles the Great Was reunited to the crown of France . 	another case: King Lewis the Tenth ,  who was sole heir to the usurper Capet ,  could not rest easy as king until he was assured that Queen Isabel ,  his grandmother ,  was a direct descendent of the Lady Ermengare ,  daughter of the aforementioned Charles duke of Lorraine ,  by which marriage the line of Charles the Great was reunited with the throne of France . 
so that ,  as clear as is the summer’s sun ,  King Pepin’s title and Hugh Capet’s claim ,  King Lewis his satisfaction ,  all appear To hold in right and title of the female . 	thus ,  it should be clear as day that King Pepin’s title ,  Hugh Capet’s claim ,  and the resolution of King Lewis’s doubts all plainly derive from the female . 
let me speak proudly: tell the constable We are but warriors for the working day; Our gayness and our gilt are all besmirched With rainy marching in the painful field . 	let me speak proudly: tell the Constable we’re only workaday soldiers . 
there’s not a piece of feather in our host— Good argument ,  I hope ,  we will not fly— And time hath worn us into slovenry . 	there’s not a strand of feather left in our whole army—a good sign ,  I hope ,  that we won’t fly away like birds—and time on the field has made us slovenly . 
If they do this ,  As ,  if God please ,  they shall ,  my ransom then Will soon be levied . 	If they do this ,  as they will ,  God willing ,  my ransom will soon be raised . 
herald ,  save thou thy labor . 	herald ,  spare yourself . 
come thou no more for ransom ,  gentle herald . 	don’t come again to ask for my ransom ,  good messenger . 
they shall have none ,  I swear ,  but these my joints ,  Which ,  if they have ,  as I will leave 'em them ,  Shall yield them little . 	I swear the only ransom will be these bones of mine . 
tell the constable . 	tell the constable that . 
I shall ,  King Harry . 	I shall ,  King Harry . 
and so fare thee well . 	and so farewell . 
thou never shalt hear herald anymore . 	you’ll never hear from the herald again . 
I fear thou wilt once more come again for a ransom . 	I’m afraid you’ll come to me again for ransom . 
my lord ,  most humbly on my knee I beg The leading of the vaward . 	my lord ,  most humbly on bended knee I beg you to grant me the leading of the vanguard . 
take it ,  brave York . 	take it ,  brave York . 
now ,  soldiers ,  march away ,  And how Thou pleasest ,  God ,  dispose the day . 	now ,  soldiers ,  advance . 
yield ,  cur . 	surrender ,  dog ! 
he says his name is Master Fer . 	Is that a lot of      He says his name is Master Fer . 
master Fer . 	master Fer ! 
what are his words ? 	what does he say ? 
he prays you to save his life . 	he begs you to spare his life . 
he is a gentleman of a good house ,  and for his ransom he will give you two hundred crowns . 	he is a gentleman of a good family ,  and for his ransom ,  he will give you two hundred crowns . 
tell him my fury shall abate ,  and I the crowns will take . 	tell him my fury will abate ,  and I’ll take the crowns . 
expound unto me ,  boy . 	explain ,  boy . 
he gives you upon his knees a thousand thanks ,  and he esteems himself happy that he hath fall'n into the hands of one ,  as he thinks ,  the most brave ,  valorous ,  and thrice -  worthy seigneur of England . 	he thanks you on his knees many times and considers himself fortunate to have fallen into the hands of one ,  as he thinks ,  who is the bravest ,  most valorous ,  and thrice - worthy gentleman of England . 
as I suck blood ,  I will some mercy show . 	as I get to leech him ,  I will show some mercy . 
follow me . 	follow me . 
I did never know so full a voice issue from so empty a heart . 	I never heard so loud a voice issue from such an empty heart . 
I must stay with the lackeys with the luggage of our camp . 	I have to stay with the servants ,  who are with our camp’s luggage . 
the French might have a good prey of us if he knew of it ,  for there is none to guard it but boys . 	we’re sitting ducks for the French ,  if they only knew it ,  for there is no one guarding it but boys . 
reproach and everlasting shame Sits mocking in our plumes . 	regret and everlasting shame sit on our helmets ,  mocking us . 
do not run away . 	do not run away . 
why ,  all our ranks are broke . 	our men have all broken ranks . 
o perdurable shame ! 	o ,  everlasting shame ! 
let’s stab ourselves . 	let’s fall on our swords . 
be these the wretches that we played at dice for ? 	are these the wretches that we threw dice for ? 
Is this the king we sent to for his ransom ? 	Is this the king we offered to ransom ? 
shame ,  and eternal shame ,  nothing but shame ! 	shame ,  eternal shame ,  and nothing but shame ! 
let us die . 	let us die honorably . 
and he that will not follow Bourbon now ,  Let him go hence ,  and with his cap in hand Like a base pander hold the chamber door ,  Whilst by a slave ,  no gentler than my dog ,  His fairest daughter is contaminate . 	he who will not follow me now ,  let him depart and stand in the doorway like a pimp ,  cap in hand ,  while some slave ,  no nobler than my dog ,  violates his daughter . 
disorder ,  that hath spoiled us ,  friend us now . 	maybe we can benefit from the same chaos that has defeated us . 
let us on heaps go offer up our lives . 	let’s go offer up our lives
we are enough yet living in the field To smother up the English in our throngs ,  If any order might be thought upon . 	there are enough of us still alive in the field to overcome the English with our numbers if we could just restore some kind of order . 
the devil take order now ! 	the hell with order ! 
I’ll to the throng . 	I’m going back into battle . 
let life be short ,  else shame will be too long . 	let life be short so that shame won’t last too long . 
yet keep the French the field . 	the French are still fighting . 
the duke of York commends him to your Majesty . 	the duke of York sends your Majesty his respects . 
lives he ,  good uncle ? 	Is he still alive ,  good uncle ? 
thrice within this hour I saw him down ,  thrice up again and fighting . 	three times in an hour I saw him down ,  and three times up again and fighting . 
from helmet to the spur ,  all blood he was . 	he was covered with blood from his helmet to his spurs . 
In which array ,  brave soldier ,  doth he lie ,  Larding the plain ,  and by his bloody side ,  Yoke - fellow to his honor - owing wounds ,  The noble earl of Suffolk also lies . 	by his side lies the noble earl of Suffolk ,  York’s comrade and equal in brave wounds . 
suffolk first died ,  and York ,  all haggled over ,  Comes to him where in gore he lay insteeped And takes him by the beard ,  kisses the gashes That bloodily did yawn upon his face . 	suffolk died first ,  and York ,  cut to pieces ,  came to him where he lay in his blood and took him by the face ,  kissing his gashes . 
and cries aloud ,   “ Tarry ,  my cousin Suffolk . 	he cried out ,   “ Wait for me ,  dear cousin . 
my soul shall thine keep company to heaven . 	my soul will keep yours company on the way to heaven . 
tarry ,  sweet soul ,  for mine; then fly abreast ,  As in this glorious and well - foughten field We kept together in our chivalry .  ”  Upon these words I came and cheered him up . 	wait for mine ,  sweet soul . 
the French have reinforced their scattered men . 	the French have reinforced their scattered men . 
then every soldier kill his prisoners . 	then every soldier must kill his prisoners . 
give the word through . 	spread the word . 
so do the kings of France unto this day ,  Howbeit they would hold up this Salic law To bar your Highness claiming from the female And rather choose to hide them in a net Than amply to imbar their crooked titles Usurped from you and your progenitors . 	to this day ,  the kings of France follow this unspoken rule ,  even though they point to this Salic law to bar your Highness from inheriting it through the female line . 
may I with right and conscience make this claim ? 	can I justifiably and in good conscience make this claim ? 
the sin upon my head ,  dread sovereign ,  For in the Book of Numbers is it writ:  “ When the man dies ,  let the inheritance Descend unto the daughter .  ”  Gracious lord ,  Stand for your own ,  unwind your bloody flag ,  Look back into your mighty ancestors . 	for it is written in the book of Numbers:  “ When the man dies ,  let the inheritance descend unto the daughter .  ”  Gracious lord ,  claim what is yours . 
go ,  my dread lord ,  to your great - grandsire’s tomb ,  From whom you claim . 	go to the tomb of your great - grandfather ,  from whom your own title to the crown derives . 
Invoke his warlike spirit And your great - uncle’s ,  Edward the Black Prince ,  Who on the French ground played a tragedy ,  Making defeat on the full power of France Whiles his most mighty father on a hill Stood smiling to behold his lion’s whelp Forage in blood of French nobility . 	Invoke his warlike spirit and that of Edward the Black Prince ,  your great - uncle ,  who fought a tragic battle on French soil ,  routing the French army in full force while his mighty father stood by on a hilltop ,  smiling to see his son steeped in the blood of French noblemen . 
o noble English ,  that could entertain With half their forces the full pride of France And let another half stand laughing by ,  All out of work and cold for action ! 	o noble English ,  who could take on the entire French army with only half their forces ,  leaving the other half to stand by ,  idle and laughing . 
awake remembrance of these valiant dead And with your puissant arm renew their feats . 	awaken the memory of those valiant ancestors and with your own powerful arm make their deeds live again . 
you are their heir ,  you sit upon their throne ,  The blood and courage that renownèd them Runs in your veins; and my thrice - puissant liege Is in the very May - morn of his youth ,  Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises . 	you are their heir and sit on their throne ,  and the blood and courage that glorified them run in your veins . 
kill the poys and the luggage ! 	to kill the boys with the luggage ! 
tis expressly against the law of arms . 	It’s expressly against the rules of combat . 
tis as arrant a piece of knavery ,  mark you now ,  as can be offert ,  in your conscience now ,  is it not ? 	It’s as complete a work of villainy as any that could be thought up . 
tis certain there’s not a boy left alive ,  and the cowardly rascals that ran from the battle ha' done this slaughter . 	there’s certainly not a boy left alive ,  and it was done by the cowardly rascals who were running from the battle . 
besides ,  they have burned and carried away all that was in the king’s tent ,  wherefore the king ,  most worthily ,  hath caused every soldier to cut his prisoner’s throat . 	on top of this ,  they’ve either burned or carried away everything that was in the king’s tent . 
oh ,  ’tis a gallant king ! 	oh ,  he’s a gallant king ! 
ay ,  he was porn at Monmouth ,  Captain Gower . 	yes ,  he was born at Monmouth ,  Captain Gower . 
why ,  I pray you ,  is not  “ pig ”  great ? 	and is  “ pig ”  not the same as  “ great ,  ”  may I ask ? 
the pig ,  or the great ,  or the mighty ,  or the huge ,  or the magnanimous are all one reckonings ,  save the phrase is a little variations . 	the pig or the mighty or the huge or the magnanimous—they all mean the same thing ,  with some variation . 
I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon . 	I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon . 
his father was called Philip of Macedon ,  as I take it . 	his father was Philip of Macedon ,  as I remember . 
I think it is in Macedon where Alexander is porn . 	I think that Macedon is indeed where Alexander was born . 
I tell you ,  Captain ,  if you look in the maps of the 'orld ,  I warrant you shall find ,  in the comparisons between Macedon and Monmouth ,  that the situations ,  look you ,  is both alike . 	I tell you ,  Captain ,  if you look at a map of the world ,  I’ll bet you will find ,  comparing Macedon and Monmouth ,  that the situations ,  see ,  are very similar . 
there is a river in Macedon ,  and there is also ,  moreover ,  a river at Monmouth . 	there is a river in Macedon ,  and there is likewise a river in Monmouth . 
It is called Wye at Monmouth ,  but it is out of my prains what is the name of the other river . 	the river in Monmouth is called Wye ,  but the name of the other river has gone out of my head . 
but ’tis all one; ’tis alike as my fingers is to my fingers ,  and there is salmons in both . 	nevertheless ,  it’s all one—the two rivers are as alike as my fingers are to my fingers ,  and there are salmon in both . 
If you mark Alexander’s life well ,  Harry of Monmouth’s life is come after it indifferent well ,  for there is figures in all things . 	If you look closely at Alexander’s life ,  Harry of Monmouth’s stands up fairly well by comparison—for there are analogies in everything . 
alexander ,  God knows and you know ,  in his rages and his furies and his wraths and his cholers and his moods and his displeasures and his indignations ,  and also being a little intoxicates in his prains ,  did ,  in his ales and his angers ,  look you ,  kill his best friend ,  Cleitus . 	alexander ,  God knows and you know ,  in his rages and his furies and his wraths and his angers and his moods and his displeasures and his indignations ,  and also being a little the worse for drink ,  killed his best friend Cleitus in a drunken rage ,  see . 
It is not well done ,  mark you now ,  to take the tales out of my mouth ere it is made and finished . 	It is not courteous ,  you know ,  to assume you know my meaning before I’ve finished talking . 
I speak but in the figures and comparisons of it . 	I’m speaking purely in analogies and comparisons . 
sir John Falstaff . 	sir John Falstaff . 
that is he . 	that’s the one . 
I’ll tell you ,  there is good men porn at Monmouth . 	I tell you ,  there are good men born at Monmouth . 
here comes his Majesty . 	here comes his Majesty . 
I was not angry since I came to France Until this instant . 	I was not angry since I came to France until this instant . 
take a trumpet ,  herald . 	take a trumpet ,  herald . 
ride thou unto the horsemen on yond hill . 	ride out to the horsemen on that hill . 
If they will fight with us ,  bid them come down ,  Or void the field . 	If they seek battle with us ,  have them come down or else clear the field . 
they do offend our sight . 	the sight of them is offensive . 
If they’ll do neither ,  we will come to them And make them skirr away as swift as stones Enforcèd from the old Assyrian slings . 	If they’ll do neither ,  we’ll come to them and make them fly like stones shot from powerful slings . 
go and tell them so . 	go and tell them this . 
here comes the herald of the French ,  my liege . 	here comes the herald of the French ,  my liege . 
his eyes are humbler than they used to be . 	he looks humbler than he used to . 
know’st thou not That I have fined these bones of mine for ransom ? 	don’t you know that I have offered these bones of mine for ransom ? 
com’st thou again for ransom ? 	are you coming again for ransom ? 
no ,  great king . 	no ,  great king . 
I come to thee for charitable license ,  That we may wander o'er this bloody field To book our dead and then to bury them; To sort our nobles from our common men ,  For many of our princes—woe the while ! — Lie drowned and soaked in mercenary blood . 	I come to ask you out of charity to let us wander over this bloody field to record the numbers of our dead and bury them ,  separating our nobles from the common men ,  for many of our princes—alas ! —lie drowned and soaked in the blood of mercenary soldiers . 
so do our vulgar drench their peasant limbs In blood of princes ,  and the wounded steeds Fret fetlock deep in gore ,  and with wild rage Yerk out their armèd heels at their dead masters ,  Killing them twice . 	likewise ,  our common men lie drenched in the blood of princes ,  and their wounded steeds ,  ankle - deep in gore ,  struggle and ,  raging wildly ,  stamp on their dead masters with their hooves ,  killing them a second time . 
oh ,  give us leave ,  great king ,  To view the field in safety and dispose Of their dead bodies . 	oh ,  give us permission ,  great king ,  to search the field in safety and dispose of our dead bodies . 
the day is yours . 	you won it . 
praised be God ,  and not our strength ,  for it ! 	god ,  not our strength ,  be praised ! 
what is this castle called that stands hard by ? 	what is the name of the castle that stands over there ? 
they call it Agincourt . 	agincourt . 
then call we this the field of Agincourt ,  Fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus . 	then we’ll call this the Battle of Agincourt ,  fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus . 
your grandfather of famous memory ,  an’t please your Majesty ,  and your great - uncle Edward the Plack Prince of Wales ,  as I have read in the chronicles ,  fought a most prave pattle here in France . 	If I may say so ,  your Majesty ,  your famous grandfather and your great - uncle Edward ,  the Black Prince of Wales—or so I’ve read in the history books—fought a very brave battle here in France . 
they did ,  Fluellen . 	they did ,  Fluellen . 
your Majesty says very true . 	your Majesty is quite right . 
If your Majesties is remembered of it ,  the Welshmen did good service in a garden where leeks did grow ,  wearing leeks in their Monmouth caps ,  which ,  your Majesty know ,  to this hour is an honorable badge of the service . 	If your Majesties recall it ,  the Welsh fought very valiantly in a garden where there were leeks growing ,  wearing leeks in their Monmouth caps which ,  your Majesty knows ,  is to this day a badge of honorable military service . 
and I do believe your Majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek upon Saint Tavy’s day . 	I do believe your Majesty takes no shame in wearing the leek on Saint Davy’s Day . 
I wear it for a memorable honor ,  For I am Welsh ,  you know ,  good countryman . 	I wear it with pride ,  for I am Welsh you know ,  good countryman . 
thanks ,  good my countryman . 	thanks ,  my good countryman . 
by Jeshu ,  I am your Majesty’s countryman ,  I care not who know it . 	by Jesus ,  I am your Majesty’s countryman ,  and I don’t care who knows it . 
I will confess it to all the 'orld . 	I will confess it to all the world . 
I need not to be ashamed of your Majesty ,  praised be God ,  so long as your Majesty is an honest man . 	I needn’t be ashamed of your Majesty ,  God be praised ,  so long as your Majesty is an honest man . 
god keep me so . —Our heralds go with him . 	god keep me so . —Heralds ,  go with him . 
bring me just notice of the numbers dead On both our parts . 	bring me an exact report of the number of dead on both sides . 
soldier ,  you must come to the king . 	soldier ,  you must come to the king . 
soldier ,  why wear’st thou that glove in thy cap ? 	soldier ,  why are you wearing that glove in your cap ? 
an’t please your Majesty ,  ’tis the gage of one that I should fight withal ,  if he be alive . 	If it pleases your Majesty ,  it is the token of a man I must fight with ,  if he’s still alive . 
an Englishman ? 	an Englishman ? 
he is a craven and a villain else ,  an ’t please your Majesty ,  in my conscience . 	If I may say so ,  your Majesty ,  as I see it he would be a coward and a villain not to . 
It may be his enemy is a gentleman of great sort ,  quite from the answer of his degree . 	It may be that his antagonist is a gentleman of very high degree ,  quite outside of his own sphere . 
though he be as good a gentleman as the devil is ,  as Lucifer and Beelzebub himself ,  it is necessary ,  look your Grace ,  that he keep his vow and his oath . 	even if he were as important a man as the devil—as Lucifer or Beelzebub himself—he’s required ,  see ,  your Grace ,  to keep his vow . 
If he be perjured ,  see you now ,  his reputation is as arrant a villain and a Jack Sauce as ever his black shoe trod upon God’s ground and His earth ,  in my conscience ,  la . 	If he backs down ,  he’ll become as notorious a villain and as saucy a Jack as ever walked on God’s earth ,  in my opinion . 
then keep thy vow ,  sirrah ,  when thou meet’st the fellow . 	then keep your vow ,  fellow ,  when you meet the man . 
so I will ,  my liege ,  as I live . 	so I will ,  my liege . 
who serv’st thou under ? 	whom do you serve under ? 
under Captain Gower ,  my liege . 	under Captain Gower ,  my liege . 
gower is a good captain ,  and is good knowledge and literatured in the wars . 	gower is a good captain ,  and is well versed and well read in the wars . 
call him hither to me ,  soldier . 	have him come to me here ,  soldier . 
I will ,  my liege . 	I will ,  my liege . 
here ,  Fluellen ,  wear thou this favor for me and stick it in thy cap . 	here ,  Fluellen ,  stick this in your cap . 
your Grace does me as great honors as can be desired in the hearts of his subjects . 	your Grace does me as great an honor as could be wished by any of his subjects . 
know’st thou Gower ? 	do you know Captain Gower ? 
he is my dear friend ,  an please you . 	he is my dear friend ,  your Majesty . 
pray thee ,  go seek him ,  and bring him to my tent . 	go find him ,  please ,  and bring him to my tent . 
I will fetch him . 	I’ll fetch him . 
my Lord of Warwick and my brother Gloucester ,  Follow Fluellen closely at the heels . 	my Lord of Warwick and my brother Gloucester ,  follow Fluellen at a close distance . 
the glove which I have given him for a favor May haply purchase him a box o' th' ear . 	the glove which I have given him to wear may possibly win him a box on the ear . 
I by bargain should Wear it myself . 	according to an agreement ,  I should wear it myself . 
follow ,  and see there be no harm between them . 	follow and see to it that nothing serious happens between them . 
go you with me ,  uncle of Exeter . 	you come with me ,  uncle of Exeter . 
I warrant it is to knight you ,  Captain . 	I’m sure it is to knight you ,  Captain . 
god’s will and His pleasure ,  Captain ,  I beseech you now ,  come apace to the king . 	as it is God’s will and pleasure ,  Captain ,  I entreat you to come quickly to the king . 
sir ,  know you this glove ? 	sir ,  do you recognize this glove ? 
know the glove ! 	know the glove ! 
I know the glove is a glove . 	I know the glove is a glove . 
I know this ,  and thus I challenge it . 	well ,  I recognize this one  Good God ! 
sblood ,  an arrant traitor as any ’s in the universal world ,  or in France ,  or in England ! 	as absolute a traitor as any in the whole entire world—or even France or England ! 
do you think I’ll be forsworn ? 	do you think I’d break my oath ? 
stand away ,  Captain Gower . 	stand aside ,  Captain Gower . 
I will give treason his payment into plows ,  I warrant you . 	I’ll reward treason with blows ,  I promise you . 
I am no traitor . 	I’m not a traitor . 
he’s a friend of the Duke Alençon’s . 	arrest him: he’s a friend of the duke of Alençon’s . 
my Lord of Warwick ,  here is ,  praised be God for it ,  a most contagious treason come to light ,  look you ,  as you shall desire in a summer’s day . 	my Lord of Warwick ,  a most corrupt treason—God be praised for it ! —has been discovered ,  as plain as any you’d hope to see on a summer’s day . 
here is his Majesty . 	here is his Majesty . 
my liege ,  here is a villain and a traitor ,  that ,  look your Grace ,  has struck the glove which your Majesty is take out of the helmet of Alençon . 	my liege ,  this man is a villain and a traitor ,  who—see ,  your Grace—has struck the glove which your Majesty took from Alençon’s helmet . 
my liege ,  this was my glove; here is the fellow of it . 	my liege ,  this was my glove . 
I met this man with my glove in his cap ,  and I have been as good as my word . 	I met this man with my glove in his cap ,  and I have been as good as my word . 
your Majesty ,  hear now ,  saving your Majesty’s manhood ,  what an arrant ,  rascally ,  beggarly ,  lousy knave it is . 	your Majesty ,  see here—if it won’t offend your Grace—what a complete ,  rascally ,  beggarly ,  lousy rat this is . 
I hope your Majesty is pear me testimony and witness ,  and will avouchment that this is the glove of Alençon that your Majesty is give me ,  in your conscience now . 	I hope your Majesty will ,  in all good conscience ,  bear me out and vouch for the fact that this is the glove of Alençon and that your Majesty gave it to me . 
twas I indeed thou promised’st to strike ,  And thou hast given me most bitter terms . 	It was I ,  in fact ,  whom you promised to strike . 
they know your Grace hath cause and means and might; So hath your Highness . 	and so you do . 
never king of England Had nobles richer ,  and more loyal subjects ,  Whose hearts have left their bodies here in England And lie pavilioned in the fields of France . 	their bodies may remain here in England ,  but their hearts are encamped on the fields of France already . 
oh ,  let their bodies follow ,  my dear liege ,  With blood and sword and fire to win your right ,  In aid whereof we of the spiritualty Will raise your Highness such a mighty sum As never did the clergy at one time Bring in to any of your ancestors . 	oh ,  let their bodies follow ,  my dear king ,  to win back what’s rightfully yours with blood and sword and fire . 
we do not mean the coursing snatchers only ,  But fear the main intendment of the Scot ,  Who hath been still a giddy neighbor to us . 	what we have to worry about is a full - scale invasion from Scotland—always an unreliable neighbor . 
an please your Majesty ,  let his neck answer for it ,  if there is any martial law in the world . 	If it pleases your Majesty ,  let his neck pay the price ,  if there is any martial law in the world . 
how canst thou make me satisfaction ? 	how can you square things with me ? 
It was ourself thou didst abuse . 	you abused me to my face . 
your Majesty came not like yourself . 	your Majesty didn’t present yourself as the king . 
you appeared to me but as a common man . 	you represented yourself as just a common man . 
and what your Highness suffered under that shape ,  I beseech you take it for your own fault and not mine ,  for ,  had you been as I took you for ,  I made no offense . 	anything your Highness suffered in that disguise ,  I beg you to see it as your own fault and not mine ,  because if you’d been what I took you for ,  there would have been no offense . 
therefore ,  I beseech your Highness pardon me . 	therefore ,  I beg your Highness ,  pardon me . 
I will none of your money . 	I’ll have none of your money . 
It is with a good will . 	It’s meant in good will . 
I can tell you it will serve you to mend your shoes . 	I tell you ,  you can use it to get your shoes fixed . 
come ,  wherefore should you be so pashful ? 	come ,  why be so hesitant ? 
your shoes is not so good . 	your shoes are in pretty bad shape . 
tis a good silling ,  I warrant you ,  or I will change it . 	It’s a good shilling ,  I promise you . 
now ,  herald ,  are the dead numbered ? 	now ,  herald ,  have the dead been counted ? 
here is the number of the slaughtered French . 	here is the count of the slaughtered French . 
what prisoners of good sort are taken ,  uncle ? 	what prisoners of rank have been taken ,  uncle ? 
this note doth tell me of ten thousand French That in the field lie slain . 	this paper tells me of ten thousand Frenchmen who lie dead on the battlefield . 
of princes in this number And nobles bearing banners ,  there lie dead One hundred twenty - six . 	among them are one hundred twenty - six princes and standard - bearing nobles . 
added to these ,  Of knights ,  esquires ,  and gallant gentlemen ,  Eight thousand and four hundred ,  of the which ,  Five hundred were but yesterday dubbed knights . 	add to these eight thousand four hundred knights ,  squires ,  and brave gentlemen ,  five hundred of whom were given the title of knight only yesterday . 
so that in these ten thousand they have lost ,  There are but sixteen hundred mercenaries . 	among the ten thousand the French have lost only sixteen hundred are mercenaries . 
the rest are princes ,  barons ,  lords ,  knights ,  squires ,  And gentlemen of blood and quality . 	the rest of the dead are princes ,  barons ,  lords ,  knights ,  squires ,  and gentlemen of birth and rank . 
of lusty earls: Grandpré and Roussi ,  Faulconbridge and Foix ,  Beaumont and Marle ,  Vaudemont and Lestrale . 	of brave earls ,  Grandpré and Roussi ,  Fauconberg and Foix ,  Beaumont and Marle ,  Vaudemont and Lestrale . 
where is the number of our English dead ? 	where is the number of our English dead ? 
when ,  without stratagem ,  But in plain shock and even play of battle ,  Was ever known so great and little loss On one part and on th' other ? 	when was there ever before so great a loss on one side and so little on the other ,  in the ordinary and equal clash of battle ? 
take it ,  God ,  For it is none but thine . 	take credit ,  God ,  for it is no one’s doing but yours . 
tis wonderful . 	It’s unbelievable . 
yes ,  Captain ,  but with this acknowledgement: That God fought for us . 	yes ,  Captain ,  but with this acknowledgement—that God fought for us . 
yes ,  my conscience ,  He did us great good . 	yes ,  I truly think He did great good . 
do we all holy rites . 	we’ll perform all the holy rites . 
vouchsafe to those that have not read the story That I may prompt them; and of such as have ,  I humbly pray them to admit th' excuse Of time ,  of numbers ,  and due course of things ,  Which cannot in their huge and proper life Be here presented . 	as for those who have ,  I beg you to excuse the gaps in time ,  and the many people and things that cannot be represented here in all their magnitude and proper form . 
so let him land ,  And solemnly see him set on to London . 	let’s have him land and solemnly proceed to London . 
so swift a pace hath thought that even now You may imagine him upon Blackheath ,  Where that his lords desire him to have borne His bruisèd helmet and his bended sword Before him through the city . 	thoughts work so quickly that even now you can imagine him on Blackheath ,  where his lords suggest that he should carry his battle - scarred sword and helmet on a procession through the city . 
he forbids it ,  Being free from vainness and self - glorious pride ,  Giving full trophy ,  signal ,  and ostent Quite from himself ,  to God . 	he refuses ,  as he is free of vanity and self - serving pride and ascribes all the glory and responsibility for victory to God . 
but now behold ,  In the quick forge and workinghouse of thought ,  How London doth pour out her citizens . 	now in the factory of thought ,  create the image of all London pouring forth into the streets . 
the Mayor and all his brethren in best sort ,  Like to the senators of th' antique Rome ,  With the plebeians swarming at their heels ,  Go forth and fetch their conquering Caesar in— As ,  by a lower but loving likelihood , 	picture the mayor and all his brother citizens dressed in their best as they go forth like senators of ancient Rome to welcome home their conquering Caesar . 
then brook abridgment ,  and your eyes advance After your thoughts ,  straight back again to France . 	skip over all the particularities between then and Harry’s return to France . 
saint Davy’s day is past . 	saint Davy’s Day has passed . 
there is occasions and causes why and wherefore in all things . 	there are reasons and causes why and how in everything . 
It was in place where I could not breed no contention with him ,  but I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see him once again ,  and then I will tell him a little piece of my desires . 	we were somewhere where I couldn’t pick a fight with him ,  but I’ve decided to wear it in my cap until I see him again ,  whereupon I’ll give him a little piece of my mind . 
why ,  here he comes ,  swelling like a turkey - cock . 	and here he comes ,  puffing himself up like a turkey . 
ha ,  art thou bedlam ? 	are you mad ? 
hence . 	away ! 
I am qualmish at the smell of leek . 	the smell of leek turns my stomach . 
I peseech you heartily ,  scurvy ,  lousy knave ,  at my desires ,  and my requests ,  and my petitions ,  to eat ,  look you ,  this leek . 	I wonder if you’d be so good ,  you lousy ,  rotten villain ,  to grant my wish and my request and gratify me ,  see ,  by eating this leek . 
because ,  look you ,  you do not love it ,  nor your affections and your appetites and your digestions does not agree with it ,  I would desire you to eat it . 	I’d like you to ,  see ,  because you don’t like it ,  and because it isn’t to your taste ,  and because it doesn’t agree with you . 
not for Cadwallader and all his goats . 	not for Cadwallader and all his goats . 
there is one goat for you . 	here’s a goat for you . 
base Trojan ,  thou shalt die . 	dissolute lowlife ,  you shall die . 
you say very true ,  scald knave ,  when God’s will is . 	that’s very true ,  mangy rascal ,  when it pleases God . 
I will desire you to live in the meantime and eat your victuals . 	meanwhile ,  I’d be gratified if you’d live and eat your food . 
come ,  there is sauce for it . 	come ,  here’s some sauce to go with it . 
enough ,  Captain . 	enough ,  Captain . 
you have astonished him . 	you’ve stunned him . 
I say I will make him eat some part of my leek ,  or I will peat his pate four days . —Bite ,  I pray you . 	I tell you ,  I’ll either make him eat some part of this leek or give him a four - day head - bashing . —Go on ,  bite . 
It is good for your green wound and your ploody coxcomb . 	It’s good for your fresh wound and your bloody noggin . 
must I bite ? 	must I bite ? 
yes ,  certainly ,  and out of doubt and out of question ,  too ,  and ambiguities . 	yes ,  absolutely ,  no question or ambiguity about it . 
by this leek ,  I will most horribly revenge . 	by this leek ,  I swear I’ll make you pay for this . 
will you have some more sauce to your leek ? 	would you like some more sauce to go with it ? 
there is not enough leek to swear by . 	there isn’t enough leek left for you to swear on . 
quiet thy cudgel . 	lay off ,  already ! 
thou dost see I eat . 	can’t you see I’m eating ? 
much good do you ,  scald knave ,  heartily . 	I sincerely hope it does you good ,  mangy rascal . 
nay ,  pray you throw none away . 	no ,  don’t throw any of it away . 
the skin is good for your broken coxcomb . 	the skin is good for your cracked head . 
when you take occasions to see leeks hereafter ,  I pray you ,  mock at 'em ,  that is all . 	when you see leeks in the future ,  I hope you keep mocking them . 
good . 	good . 
ay ,  leeks is good . 	yes ,  leeks are good . 
hold you ,  there is a groat to heal your pate . 	wait ,  here’s a penny to heal your head . 
me ,  a groat ? 	me ,  a penny ? 
If I owe you anything ,  I will pay you in cudgels . 	If I owe you anything ,  I’ll pay you in clubbings . 
you shall be a woodmonger and buy nothing of me but cudgels . 	you’ll become a wood salesman and buy nothing but clubs from me . 
god be wi' you and keep you and heal your pate . 	god be with you and keep you ,  and may he heal your head . 
all hell shall stir for this . 	there’ll be hell to pay for this . 
go ,  go . 	go on ,  get out of here . 
you are a counterfeit cowardly knave . 	you’re a lying ,  cowardly wretch . 
will you mock at an ancient tradition begun upon an honorable respect and worn as a memorable trophy of predeceased valor ,  and dare not avouch in your deeds any of your words ? 	you mock an ancient tradition ,  born of reverence and worn in honor of brave men who have died ,  and then have the gall not to stand by your words . 
I have seen you gleeking and galling at this gentleman twice or thrice . 	I’ve seen you bait and mock this man more than once . 
you thought because he could not speak English in the native garb ,  he could not therefore handle an English cudgel . 	you thought because he didn’t speak English like a native he couldn’t handle an English club . 
fare you well . 	farewell . 
doth Fortune play the huswife with me now ? 	has Fortune turned on me ,  like the whore she is ? 
news have I that my Nell is dead i' th' spital Of a malady of France ,  And there my rendezvous is quite cut off . 	I’ve had news that my Nell died of the pox in a hospice . 
old I do wax ,  and from my weary limbs Honor is cudgeled . 	I grow old ,  and all dignity has been thrashed out of me . 
well ,  bawd I’ll turn ,  And something lean to cutpurse of quick hand . 	well ,  I’ll turn pimp and do some occasional pickpocketing . 
to England will I steal ,  and there I’ll steal . 	I’ll steal away to England ,  and I’ll steal some more when I get there . 
and patches will I get unto these cudgeled scars ,  And swear I got them in the Gallia wars . 	I’ll bandage up these wounds and swear I got them in the French wars . 
but there’s a saying very old and true:  “ If that you will France win ,  Then with Scotland first begin .  ”  For once the eagle England being in prey ,  To her unguarded nest the weasel Scot Comes sneaking and so sucks her princely eggs ,  Playing the mouse in absence of the cat ,  To ’tame and havoc more than she can eat . 	but here’s an old ,  true saying:  “ If you want to win France ,  start with Scotland .  ”  For when the eagle England leaves her nest to seek prey ,  the weasel Scot always comes sneaking around to suck dry her princely eggs and ,  like the mouse when the cat’s away ,  destroy more than she can actually eat . 
It follows ,  then ,  the cat must stay at home . 	It would follow from this that the cat should stay home . 
yet that is but a crushed necessity ,  Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries And pretty traps to catch the petty thieves . 	but that is a false conclusion ,  since we have locks to keep our valuables safe and clever traps to catch little thieves . 
while that the armèd hand doth fight abroad ,  Th' advisèd head defends itself at home . 	while the armed hand fights in foreign lands ,  the wise head defends itself at home . 
right joyous are we to behold your face ,  Most worthy brother England . 	we rejoice to see you ,  most worthy brother of England . 
so are you ,  princes English ,  every one . 	you are welcome here ,  as are all of you English princes . 
the venom of such looks ,  we fairly hope ,  Have lost their quality ,  and that this day Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love . 	we hope your poison has worn off and this day shall transform all grievances and quarrels into friendship . 
to cry  “ Amen ”  to that ,  thus we appear . 	we’re here to say  “ amen ”  to that . 
you English princes all ,  I do salute you . 	all you English princes ,  I salute you . 
my duty to you both ,  on equal love ,  Great kings of France and England . 	great kings of France and England ,  I owe you both equal service and loyalty . 
that I have labored With all my wits ,  my pains ,  and strong endeavors ,  To bring your most imperial Majesties Unto this bar and royal interview ,  Your mightiness on both parts best can witness . 	your Highnesses can both attest to the fact that I’ve strived mightily ,  with all my wits and energy ,  to bring about this royal meeting between you two imperial Majesties . 
alas ,  she hath from France too long been chased ,  And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps ,  Corrupting in its own fertility . 	alas ,  she has been too long exiled from France ,  whose crops all lie in heaps ,  rotting with ripeness . 
her vine ,  the merry cheerer of the heart ,  Unprunèd ,  dies . 	her grapes ,  which make the wine that cheers our hearts ,  die unpruned on the vines . 
her hedges ,  even - pleached ,  Like prisoners wildly overgrown with hair ,  Put forth disordered twigs . 	her once - trimmed hedges ,  like prisoners with wild ,  untended hair ,  put forth unruly twigs . 
her fallow leas The darnel ,  hemlock ,  and rank fumitory Doth root upon ,  while that the coulter rusts That should deracinate such savagery . 	her fallow fields are overgrown with weeds ,  while the blade that should uproot such wilderness lies rusting . 
the even mead ,  that erst brought sweetly forth The freckled cowslip ,  burnet ,  and green clover ,  Wanting the scythe ,  withal uncorrected ,  rank ,  Conceives by idleness ,  and nothing teems But hateful docks ,  rough thistles ,  kecksies ,  burrs ,  Losing both beauty and utility . 	the level meadow ,  where the freckled cowslip ,  burnet ,  and green clover once grew ,  has become useless: unmowed ,  it grows to seed ,  so that nothing springs up but weeds ,  rough thistles ,  barren plants ,  and burs . 
and as our vineyards ,  fallows ,  meads ,  and hedges ,  Defective in their natures ,  grow to wildness ,  Even so our houses and ourselves and children Have lost ,  or do not learn for want of time ,  The sciences that should become our country ,  But grow like savages ,  as soldiers will	children have lost—or no longer have time to learn—skills that should be a credit to our country . 
that nothing do but meditate on blood ,  To swearing and stern looks ,  diffused attire ,  And everything that seems unnatural . 	they grow like savages—like soldiers who meditate on nothing but blood—surrounded by swearing and stern looks ,  ragged clothing and everything unnatural . 
If ,  Duke of Burgundy ,  you would the peace ,  Whose want gives growth to th' imperfections Which you have cited ,  you must buy that peace With full accord to all our just demands ,  Whose tenors and particular effects You have ,  enscheduled briefly ,  in your hands . 	duke of Burgundy ,  if you want peace ,  the lack of which creates these misfortunes you describe ,  you must purchase it buy agreeing across - the - board to all our very just demands . 
the king hath heard them ,  to the which as yet There is no answer made . 	the king has heard them ,  but as yet has made no answer . 
well then ,  the peace which you before so urged Lies in his answer . 	well ,  the peace you pleaded for so eloquently just now lies in his answer . 
I have but with a cursitory eye O'erglanced the articles . 	I’ve only given the articles a cursory glance . 
pleaseth your Grace To appoint some of your council presently To sit with us once more with better heed To resurvey them ,  we will suddenly Pass our accept and peremptory answer . 	If your Grace would kindly appoint some members of your council to sit with me once more and go over them more carefully ,  I will give my answer and acceptance right away . 
and we’ll consign thereto . —Will you ,  fair sister ,  Go with the princes or stay here with us ? 	fair sister ,  will you go with the princes or stay here with me ? 
our gracious brother ,  I will go with them . 	gracious brother ,  I will go with them . 
haply a woman’s voice may do some good ,  When articles too nicely urged be stood on . 	perhaps a woman’s voice may do some good when some small detail proves to be holding things up . 
yet leave our cousin Katherine here with us . 	In that case ,  leave our cousin Katherine here with us . 
she is our capital demand ,  comprised Within the forerank of our articles . 	she is our principal demand—one of the first points of the treaty . 
she hath good leave . 	she is welcome to stay . 
fair Katherine ,  and most fair ,  Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms Such as will enter at a lady’s ear And plead his love suit to her gentle heart ? 	lovely ,  most lovely Katherine ,  will you agree to teach a soldier the words that would recommend his love - suit to a gentle heart like yours ? 
your Majesty shall mock at me . 	your Majesty shall mock at me . 
I cannot speak your England . 	I cannot speak your England . 
o fair Katherine ,  if you will love me soundly with your French heart ,  I will be glad to hear you confess it brokenly with your English tongue . 	lovely Katherine ,  if you will love me well with your French heart ,  I’m happy to hear you confess it in broken English . 
do you like me ,  Kate ? 	do you like me ,  Kate ? 
an angel is like you ,  Kate ,  and you are like an angel . 	pardon me but I do not know what is  “ like me .  ”  An angel is like you ,  Kate ,  and you are like an angel . 
I said so ,  dear Katherine; and I must not blush to affirm it . 	I said so ,  dear Katherine ,  and I’m not ashamed to repeat it . 
the princess is the better Englishwoman . —I' faith ,  Kate ,  my wooing is fit for thy understanding . 	kate ,  my wooing is fit for your understanding: I am glad your English isn’t better . 
I am glad thou canst speak no better English ,  for if thou couldst ,  thou wouldst find me such a plain king that thou wouldst think I had sold my farm to buy my crown . 	If it were ,  you would find me such an ordinary king that you would think I’d sold my farm to buy my crown . 
I know no ways to mince it in love ,  but directly to say ,   “ I love you .  ”  Then if you urge me farther than to say ,   “ Do you ,  in faith ?  ”  I wear out my suit . 	I don’t know any fancy ways of talking about love ,  only to say right out ,   “ I love you .  ”  If you press me any further than with the question ,   “ Do you really ?  ”  my love scene is over . 
give me your answer ,  i' faith ,  do; and so clap hands and a bargain . 	so give me your answer ,  and we’ll shake on it . 
how say you ,  lady ? 	deal ? 
for the one ,  I have neither words nor measure; and for the other ,  I have no strength in measure ,  yet a reasonable measure in strength . 	I have no gift for the one and no strength for the other ,  though I have the gift of strength . 
If I could win a lady at leapfrog or by vaulting into my saddle with my armor on my back ,  under the correction of bragging be it spoken ,  I should quickly leap into a wife . 	If I could win a lady by playing leapfrog or vaulting into my saddle with my armor on my back—though you may accuse me of boasting—I could easily get myself a wife . 
If thou canst love a fellow of this temper ,  Kate ,  whose face is not worth sunburning ,  that never looks in his glass for love of anything he sees there ,  let thine eye be thy cook . 	If you can love a man of this temperament ,  Kate ,  whose face a sunburn wouldn’t make any worse and who never looks in the mirror to admire himself ,  let your eye improve me . 
I speak to thee plain soldier . 	I speak to you as a plain soldier . 
If thou canst love me for this ,  take me . 	If you can love me for this ,  take me . 
If not ,  to say to thee that I shall die is true ,  but for thy love ,  by the Lord ,  no . 	If not ,  to tell you I will die is true ,  but not for love ,  by God . 
yet I love thee too . 	and yet I do love you . 
and while thou liv’st ,  dear Kate ,  take a fellow of plain and uncoined constancy ,  for he perforce must do thee right because he hath not the gift to woo in other places . 	so take for life a fellow of pure and plain faithfulness . 
for these fellows of infinite tongue ,  that can rhyme themselves into ladies' favors ,  they do always reason themselves out again . 	these chatty fellows who can rhyme their way into a lady’s good graces always reason themselves out again . 
If thou would have such a one ,  take me . 	If you would have such a man ,  take me . 
and what say’st thou then to my love ? 	so what do you say to my suit ? 
speak ,  my fair ,  and fairly ,  I pray thee . 	speak ,  my fair one ,  and speak fairly ,  I beg you . 
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France ? 	Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France ? 
no ,  it is not possible you should love the enemy of France ,  Kate . 	no ,  it is not possible you should love the enemy of France ,  Kate . 
but ,  in loving me ,  you should love the friend of France ,  for I love France so well that I will not part with a village of it . 	but in loving me ,  you would love the friend of France ,  for I love France so much that I will not part with a single village of it . 
I will have it all mine . 	I will have it all mine . 
and ,  Kate ,  when France is mine and I am yours ,  then yours is France and you are mine . 	and ,  Kate ,  when France is mine and I am yours ,  then France is yours and you are mine . 
I cannot tell wat is dat . 	I don’t understand all dat . 
no ,  Kate ? 	no ,  Kate ? 
can any of your neighbors tell ,  Kate ? 	can any of your neighbors tell ,  Kate ? 
I’ll ask them . 	I’ll ask them . 
but ,  good Kate ,  mock me mercifully ,  the rather ,  gentle princess ,  because I love thee cruelly . 	but mock me gently ,  dear Kate ,  because I love you terribly . 
shall we not ? 	shall we not ? 
what say’st thou ,  my fair flower de luce ? 	what do you say ,  my fair  I do not know dat . 
I do not know dat . 	no ,  of course you don’t . 
no ,  ’tis hereafter to know ,  but now to promise . 	now there can only be the promise . 
do but now promise ,  Kate ,  you will endeavor for your French part of such a boy; and for my English moiety take the word of a king and a bachelor . 	do promise ,  Kate ,  that you’ll do your French part to bring forth such a boy; and for my English half ,  take the word of a king and a bachelor . 
by mine honor ,  in true English ,  I love thee ,  Kate . 	I tell you truly ,  in true English: I love you ,  Kate . 
by which honor I dare not swear thou lovest me ,  yet my blood begins to flatter me that thou dost ,  notwithstanding the poor and untempering effect of my visage . 	and though I wouldn’t dare to swear that you love me ,  still my blood begins to flatter me that you do ,  despite the ill effects of my face . 
now ,  beshrew my father’s ambition ! 	curse my father’s ambition ! 
but ,  in faith ,  Kate ,  the elder I wax ,  the better I shall appear . 	but I promise you ,  Kate: the older I grow the better I’ll look . 
my comfort is that old age ,  that ill layer - up of beauty ,  can do no more spoil upon my face . 	my comfort is that old age ,  that poor preserver of beauty ,  can’t make my face any worse than it already is . 
thou hast me ,  if thou hast me ,  at the worst ,  and thou shalt wear me ,  if thou wear me ,  better and better . 	If you have me ,  you have me now at my worst; and if you have me ,  you’ll appreciate me better and better . 
and therefore tell me ,  most fair Katherine ,  will you have me ? 	therefore tell me ,  fairest Katherine ,  will you have me ? 
put off your maiden blushes ,  avouch the thoughts of your heart with the looks of an empress ,  take me by the hand ,  and say  “ Harry of England ,  I am thine ,  ”  which word thou shalt no sooner bless mine ear withal ,  but I will tell	take me by the hand and say ,   “ Harry of England ,  I am yours .  ”  No sooner shall I hear that word than I will tell you straight out ,   “ England is yours ,  Ireland is yours ,  France is yours ,  and Harry Plantagenet
thee aloud  “ England is thine ,  Ireland is thine ,  France is thine ,  and Harry Plantagenet is thine ,  ”  who ,  though I speak it before his face ,  if he be not fellow with the best king ,  thou shalt find the best king of good fellows . 	is yours .  ”  And ,  though I say so in his presence ,  if he’s not a friend of the best kings ,  you’ll find him king of the best friends . 
come ,  your answer in broken music ,  for thy voice is music and thy English broken . 	come on ,  tell me in broken music—for your voice is music and your English broken . 
therefore ,  queen of all ,  Katherine ,  break thy mind to me in broken English . 	come ,  Katherine Queen of All ,  reveal your heart to me in broken English . 
wilt thou have me ? 	will you have me ? 
den it sall also content me . 	den it shall also content me . 
upon that I kiss your hand ,  and I call you my queen . 	with that I kiss your hand and call you my queen . 
then I will kiss your lips ,  Kate . 	then I will kiss your lips ,  Kate . 
madam my interpreter ,  what says she ? 	what does she say ,  madam interpreter ? 
dat it is not be de fashion pour les ladies of France—I cannot tell wat is  To kiss . 	dat it not be de custom pour les ladies of France—I cannot tell vat is  To kiss . 
your  It is not a fashion for the maids in France to kiss before they are married ,  would she say ? 	It is not the custom for the maids in France to kiss before they are married ,  is that what she says ? 
o Kate ,  nice customs curtsy to great kings . 	oh ,  Kate ,  prudish customs bow before great kings . 
dear Kate ,  you and I cannot be confined within the weak list of a country’s fashion . 	you and I cannot be held within the confines of a country’s arbitrary customs ,  dear Kate . 
we are the makers of manners ,  Kate ,  and the liberty that follows our places stops the mouth of all find -  faults ,  as I will do yours for upholding the nice fashion of your country in denying me a kiss . 	you and I ,  Kate ,  we are the makers of custom ,  and the freedom that goes with our position silences all who would criticize ,  as I will silence you for upholding the prudish custom of your country in refusing me a kiss . 
therefore ,  patiently and yielding . 	therefore ,  willingly and yielding . 
god save your Majesty . 	god save your Majesty . 
my royal cousin ,  teach you our princess English ? 	my royal kinsman ,  are you teaching our princess English ? 
I would have her learn ,  my fair cousin ,  how perfectly I love her ,  and that is good English . 	I wanted to teach her how perfectly I love her ,  kinsman ,  and that’s good English . 
Is she not apt ? 	she picks it up quick ,  doesn’t she ? 
our tongue is rough ,  coz ,  and my condition is not smooth ,  so that ,  having neither the voice nor the heart of flattery about me ,  I cannot so conjure up the spirit of love in her that he will appear in his true likeness . 	so ,  possessing neither a voice nor a heart for flattery ,  I can’t awaken the spirit of love in her so as to make him appear in his true likeness . 
I this infer: That many things ,  having full reference To one consent ,  may work contrariously ,  As many arrows loosèd several ways Come to one mark ,  as many ways meet in one town ,  As many fresh streams meet in one salt sea ,  As many lines close in the dial’s center ,  So may a thousand actions ,  once afoot ,  End in one purpose ,  and be all well borne Without defeat . 	from this ,  I conclude that many different elements can work toward one common end—just as many arrows ,  shot from different points ,  converge on a single target; just as many roads meet in a single town; just as many fresh streams empty into only one salt sea; just as the many radiuses of a
pardon the frankness of my mirth if I answer you for that . 	forgive my boldness if I take you up on your words about making magic . 
If you would conjure in her ,  you must make a circle; if conjure up Love in her in his true likeness ,  he must appear naked and blind . 	for love to appear in his true likeness ,  he would have to be as Cupid is: naked and blind . 
can you blame her then ,  being a maid yet rosed over with the virgin crimson of modesty ,  if she deny the appearance of a naked blind boy in her naked seeing self ? 	how can you blame her ,  a tender young maiden still given to virgin blushes ,  for objecting to having a blind ,  naked boy appear before her ? 
It were ,  my lord ,  a hard condition for a maid to consign to . 	It’s a lot to ask of a maiden . 
they are then excused ,  my lord ,  when they see not what they do . 	they’re forgiven ,  then ,  if they don’t see what they’re doing . 
then ,  good my lord ,  teach your cousin to consent winking . 	then teach your cousin to also be willing to close her eyes ,  my lord . 
this moral ties me over to time and a hot summer . 	so you’re telling me to give it time and wait for summer . 
and so I shall catch the fly ,  your cousin ,  in the latter end and she must be blind too . 	and even then ,  in order for me to catch the fly your cousin ,  she must be blind ? 
as love is ,  my lord ,  before it loves . 	like love ,  my lord ,  before it learns to love . 
It is so . 	fair enough . 
shall Kate be my wife ? 	shall Kate be my wife ? 
so please you . 	If you wish . 
I am content ,  so the maiden cities you talk of may wait on her . 	I am satisfied ,  as long as the maiden cities you talk of come with her . 
so the maid that stood in the way for my wish shall show me the way to my will . 	that way ,  the maiden that stood between me and them shall be the means of my achieving my desire . 
we have consented to all terms of reason . 	we have consented to all reasonable terms . 
Is ’t so ,  my lords of England ? 	Is that true ,  my lords of England ? 
the king hath granted every article ,  His daughter first ,  and ,  in sequel ,  all ,  According to their firm proposed natures . 	the king has agreed to every point: first his daughter ,  then everything else ,  as you strictly proposed . 
only he hath not yet subscribèd this: Where your Majesty demands that the king of France ,  having any occasion to write for matter of grant ,  shall name your Highness in this form and with this addition ,  in French:  Nor this I have not ,  brother ,  so denied But your request shall make me let it pass . 	except that he has not yet agreed to address you in this form and with this title—in French ,   And even this I’m willing to grant if you request it . 
I pray you ,  then ,  in love and dear alliance ,  Let that one article rank with the rest ,  And thereupon give me your daughter . 	In that case ,  I ask that for the sake of friendship and alliance you let that one item stand with the rest ,  and bestow your daughter on me . 
amen . 	amen . 
now welcome ,  Kate ,  and bear me witness all That here I kiss her as my sovereign queen . 	now ,  welcome ,  Kate . —And let everyone bear witness that here I kiss her as my sovereign queen . 
god ,  the best maker of all marriages ,  Combine your hearts in one ,  your realms in one . 	may God ,  who is the best matchmaker ,  join your hearts and realms in one . 
god speak this  “ amen ”  ! 	god say ,   “ Amen ”  ! 
amen . 	amen ! 
prepare we for our marriage; on which day ,  My Lord of Burgundy ,  we’ll take your oath ,  And all the peers' ,  for surety of our leagues . 	let us prepare for our wedding . —On that day ,  I’ll take your oath of loyalty ,  my Lord of Burgundy and all my peers ,  to guarantee my treaty . 
then shall I swear to Kate ,  and you to me ,  And may our oaths well kept and prosp'rous be . 	then I will swear to Kate and you to me ,  and may our oaths be faithfully kept and prove fortunate . 
thus far with rough and all - unable pen Our bending author hath pursued the story ,  In little room confining mighty men ,  Mangling by starts the full course of their glory . 	thus far has our straining author pursued the story with his crude ,  inadequate writing ,  keeping important people penned up in this little room while he mangled history’s full glory with his uneven telling . 
henry the Sixth ,  in infant bands crowned king Of France and England ,  did this king succeed ,  Whose state so many had the managing That they lost France and made his England bleed ,  Which oft our stage hath shown . 	henry the Sixth ,  crowned king of France and England while still in his infancy ,  succeeded him . 
and for their sake ,  In your fair minds let this acceptance take . 	with those plays in mind ,  we hope you’ll receive this one kindly . 
If we ,  with thrice such powers left at home ,  Cannot defend our own doors from the dog ,  Let us be worried ,  and our nation lose The name of hardiness and policy . 	If we cannot defend our country with three times such a power left at home ,  then we deserve to be harassed by an invader and lose our reputation as a powerful and politically savvy nation . 
call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin . 	call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin . 
now are we well prepared to know the pleasure Of our fair cousin Dauphin ,  for we hear Your greeting is from him ,  not from the king . 	I’m ready now to hear what my good cousin the Dauphin has to say—for I hear that the greeting you bear is from him ,  not the king . 
may ’t please your Majesty to give us leave Freely to render what we have in charge ,  Or shall we sparingly show you far off The Dauphin’s meaning and our embassy ? 	will your Majesty grant us permission to freely express the message we’ve been asked to convey ? 
piece out our imperfections with your thoughts . 	let your thoughts make up for our imperfections . 
Into a thousand parts divide one man ,  And make imaginary puissance . 	divide each man into a thousand ,  and there you will have an imaginary army . 
think ,  when we talk of horses ,  that you see them Printing their proud hoofs i' th' receiving earth ,  For ’tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings ,  Carry them here and there ,  jumping o'er times , 	Imagine ,  when we talk of horses ,  that you see them planting their proud hooves in the soft earth . 
we are no tyrant ,  but a Christian king ,  Unto whose grace our passion is as subject As is our wretches fettered in our prisons . 	I am no tyrant but a Christian king ,  whose emotions are as tightly controlled as the wretches who languish in our prisons . 
therefore with frank and with uncurbèd plainness Tell us the Dauphin’s mind . 	therefore tell me the Dauphin’s mind frankly and without constraint . 
you cannot revel into dukedoms there . 	you can’t party your way into dukedoms there . 
he therefore sends you ,  meeter for your spirit ,  This tun of treasure ,  and ,  in lieu of this ,  Desires you let the dukedoms that you claim Hear no more of you . 	and in return for this gift ,  he wishes you to drop your claim to the dukedoms . 
this the Dauphin speaks . 	this is the Dauphin’s message . 
what treasure ,  uncle ? 	what’s the treasure ,  uncle ? 
tennis balls ,  my liege . 	tennis balls ,  my liege . 
we are glad the Dauphin is so pleasant with us . 	I’m happy the Dauphin has such a good sense of humor . 
his present and your pains we thank you for . 	thank you for his present and your trouble . 
when we have matched our rackets to these balls ,  We will in France ,  by God’s grace ,  play a set Shall strike his father’s crown into the hazard . 	once I’ve put my rackets to these balls ,  I’ll play a set in France ,  God willing ,  that will knock his father’s crown right out of the court . 
and we understand him well ,  How he comes o'er us with our wilder days ,  Not measuring what use we made of them . 	and I understand perfectly his sneering reference to my wilder days . 
we never valued this poor seat of England And therefore ,  living hence ,  did give ourself To barbarous license ,  as ’tis ever common That men are merriest when they are from home . 	men tend to be at their most irresponsible when they’re away from home . 
so get you hence in peace . 	so go in peace . 
and tell the Dauphin His jest will savor but of shallow wit When thousands weep more than did laugh at it . 	and tell the Dauphin his joke will look pretty stupid when thousands more weep than ever laughed at it . 
this was a merry message . 	that was a humorous message . 
we hope to make the sender blush at it . 	I hope to make the sender blush for it . 
therefore ,  my lords ,  omit no happy hour That may give furth'rance to our expedition; For we have now no thought in us but France ,  Save those to God ,  that run before our business . 	now ,  lords ,  don’t let slip any opportunity that might be advantageous for our expedition . 
therefore let every man now task his thought ,  That this fair action may on foot be brought . 	therefore ,  let every man give some thought to how this noble expedition may be undertaken . 
now all the youth of England are on fire ,  And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies . 	now all the young men of England are inspired and have stored their party clothes in the closet . 
ere he take ship for France ,  and in Southampton . 	shifts ,  friends ,  to Southampton . 
there is the playhouse now ,  there must you sit ,  And thence to France shall we convey you safe And bring you back ,  charming the narrow seas To give you gentle pass; for ,  if we may ,  We’ll not offend one stomach with our play . 	from there we’ll safely carry you to France and back ,  calming the waters of the Channel to provide you with a smooth voyage . 
but ,  till the king come forth ,  and not till then ,  Unto Southampton do we shift our scene . 	but we won’t shift the scene to Southampton until Henry reappears . 
well met ,  Corporal Nym . 	good to see you ,  Corporal Nym . 
good morrow ,  Lieutenant Bardolph . 	good day ,  Lieutenant Bardolph . 
what ,  are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet ? 	tell me ,  are you and Ensign Pistol friends again yet ? 
for my part ,  I care not . 	for my part ,  I really don’t care . 
I will bestow a breakfast to make you friends; and we’ll be all three sworn brothers to France . 	then we can all three be comrades on our way to France . 
let ’t be so ,  good Corporal Nym . 	how about it ,  Corporal Nym ? 
that is my rest; that is the rendezvous of it . 	that’s it . 
I cannot tell . 	It’s not for me to say . 
things must be as they may . 	things are what they are . 
men may sleep ,  and they may have their throats about them at that time ,  and some say knives have edges . 	men may sleep ,  and when they do they may have their throats with them ,  and some people say knives have blades . 
there must be conclusions . 	there must be some resolution . 
well ,  I cannot tell . 	well ,  it’s not for me to say . 
here comes Ancient Pistol and his wife . 	here comes Ensign Pistol and his wife . 
now ,  by this hand ,  I swear ,  I scorn the term ,  Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers . 	I swear ,  I scorn the word . 
oh ,  well - a - day ,  Lady ! 	oh ,  dear . 
pish ! 	pish ! 
pish for thee ,  Iceland dog ,  Thou prick - eared cur of Iceland ! 	pish to you ,  you mangy dog ,  you pointy - eared Icelandic mutt . 
good Corporal Nym ,  show thy valor and put up your sword . 	corporal Nym ,  be a man and put away your sword . 
will you shog off ? 	get lost ,  will you ? 
I am not Barbason; you cannot conjure me . 	I am not some fiend of hell: you can’t get rid of me with spells . 
I have an humor to knock you indifferently well . 	I’m in a mood to beat you up pretty good . 
If you grow foul with me ,  Pistol ,  I will scour you with my rapier ,  as I may ,  in fair terms . 	If you get nasty with me ,  Pistol ,  I’ll stab you with my sword ,  in fair play . 
o braggart vile and damnèd furious wight ,  The grave doth gape ,  and doting death is near . 	your grave is gaping open ,  and your death is near . 
therefore exhale . 	so take your last breath . 
hear me ,  hear me what I say: he that strikes the first stroke ,  I’ll run him up to the hilts ,  as I am a soldier . 	listen ,  listen to what I say: whoever strikes first ,  I’ll run him through with my sword ,  as sure as I’m a soldier . 
an oath of mickle might ,  and fury shall abate . 	that’s an oath of great power ,  and our fury must subside . 
thy spirits are most tall . 	that’s enough . 
by my troth ,  he’ll yield the crow a pudding one of these days . 	I swear ,  he’ll be food for the crows soon . 
the king has killed his heart . 	the king has broken his heart . 
good husband ,  come home presently . 	good husband ,  come home soon . 
come ,  shall I make you two friends ? 	come on ,  can I get you two to make up ? 
let floods o'erswell and fiends for food howl on ! 	let rivers flood and fiends howl for food ! 
you’ll pay me the eight shillings I won of you at betting ? 	are you going to pay the eight shillings I won from you in a bet ? 
base is the slave that pays . 	paying debts is for peasants . 
that now I will have—that’s the humor of it . 	I’m going to take it from you now . 
as manhood shall compound . 	we’ll see ,  won’t we ? 
push home . 	do your best . 
by this sword ,  he that makes the first thrust ,  I’ll kill him . 	by this sword ,  I’ll kill whichever one of you makes the first thrust . 
by this sword ,  I will . 	by this sword ,  I will . 
sword ”  is an oath ,  and oaths must have their course . 	by this sword ”  is an oath ,  and oaths must be kept . 
prithee ,  put up . 	come on ,  put it away . 
In cash ,  most justly paid . 	In cash . 
well ,  then ,  that’s the humor of ’t . 	well ,  then ,  that’s how it is . 
as ever you come of women ,  come in quickly to Sir John . 	If you ever had a mother ,  come in quickly to Sir John . 
ah ,  poor heart ,  he is so shaked of a burning quotidian tertian that it is most lamentable to behold . 	the poor thing ,  he is so shaken with a fever that it’s terrible to see . 
sweet men ,  come to him . 	sweet men ,  come to him . 
turning th' accomplishment of many years Into an hour - glass; for the which supply ,  Admit me chorus to this history; Who ,  prologue - like ,  your humble patience pray Gently to hear ,  kindly to judge our play . 	and ,  as the speaker of any prologue should ,  I ask you to hear our play courteously and to judge it kindly . 
nym ,  thou hast spoke the right . 	nym ,  what you say is true . 
he passes some humors and careers . 	he has his moods and his ways . 
they shall be apprehended by and by . 	how smooth and cool they seem ! 
how smooth and even they do bear themselves ,  As if allegiance in their bosoms sat Crownèd with faith and constant loyalty . 	just as if they were perfectly loyal and faithful . 
the king hath note of all that they intend ,  By interception which they dream not of . 	the king has been informed of all their plans ,  but they have no idea . 
now sits the wind fair ,  and we will aboard . 	now that the wind is favorable ,  let’s board the ship . 
my Lord of Cambridge ,  and my kind Lord of Masham ,  And you ,  my gentle knight ,  give me your thoughts . 	my Lord of Cambridge and my good Lord of Masham and you ,  my noble knight ,  what do you think ? 
think you not that the powers we bear with us Will cut their passage through the force of France ,  Doing the execution and the act For which we have in head assembled them ? 	will our army cut a swath through the fighting force of France ,  achieving and accomplishing everything I’ve assembled them to do ? 
no doubt ,  my liege ,  if each man do his best . 	no doubt it will ,  my liege ,  if each man does his best . 
I doubt not that ,  since we are well - persuaded We carry not a heart with us from hence That grows not in a fair consent with ours ,  Nor leave not one behind that doth not wish Success and conquest to attend on us . 	I have no doubt about that ,  since I know there isn’t a man among us who isn’t with me wholeheartedly ,  or a soul left behind who doesn’t wish us success and conquest . 
never was monarch better feared and loved Than is your Majesty . 	there never was a monarch better feared and loved than yourself ,  your Majesty . 
there’s not ,  I think ,  a subject That sits in heart - grief and uneasiness Under the sweet shade of your government . 	I don’t think there’s a single unhappy subject living under the protection of your government . 
true . 	true . 
those that were your father’s enemies Have steeped their galls in honey ,  and do serve you With hearts create of duty and of zeal . 	those who were bitter enemies of your father in his time have turned their bitterness to sweetness ,  serving you loyally and wholeheartedly . 
we therefore have great cause of thankfulness And shall forget the office of our hand Sooner than quittance of desert and merit According to the weight and worthiness . 	yes ,  I have great cause to be thankful . 
we judge no less . —Uncle of Exeter ,  Enlarge the man committed yesterday That railed against our person . 	uncle of Exeter ,  release the man who was arrested yesterday for railing against me . 
that’s mercy ,  but too much security . 	that’s merciful but a bit careless . 
oh ,  let us yet be merciful . 	oh ,  let us be merciful anyway . 
and now to our French causes . 	and now ,  let’s turn to our business with the French . 
who are the late commissioners ? 	who are the new commissioners ? 
I one ,  my lord . 	I am one ,  my lord . 
your Highness bade me ask for it today . 	your Highness told me to ask for my commission today . 
so did you me ,  my liege . 	you told me to do the same ,  my liege . 
and I ,  my royal sovereign . 	and me ,  too ,  my royal sovereign . 
I do confess my fault ,  And do submit me to Your Highness' mercy . 	I confess my crime and throw myself on your Highness’s mercy . 
to which we all appeal . 	to which we all appeal . 
the mercy that was quick in us but late By your own counsel is suppressed and killed . 	the mercy that was alive in me a moment ago was smothered and killed by your own advice . 
tis so strange That ,  though the truth of it stands off as gross As black and white ,  my eye will scarcely see it . 	though the truth of your treachery is as plain as black on white ,  I can scarcely believe it ,  it’s so past understanding . 
treason and murder ever kept together As two yoke - devils sworn to either’s purpose ,  Working so grossly in a natural cause That admiration did not whoop at them . 	all other devils who tempt people to treason patch together some motive ,  put together from shreds
all other devils that suggest by treasons Do botch and bungle up damnation With patches ,  colors ,  and with forms being fetched From glist'ring semblances of piety . 	and patches of righteousness . 
but he that tempered thee bade thee stand up ,  Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason ,  Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor . 	but the devil that tempted you gave you no reason why you should commit treason other than to win the name of traitor . 
If that same demon that hath gulled thee thus Should with his lion gait walk the whole world ,  He might return to vasty Tartar back And tell the legions  “ I can never win A soul so easy as that Englishman’s .  ”  Oh ,  how hast thou with jealousy infected The sweetness of affiance ! 	the demon who seduced you could stride the world over with the proud gait of a lion ,  could return to hell and tell the devil’s legions ,   “ I will never win another soul as easily as I won that Englishman’s .  ”  How you have poisoned my faith in people ! 
why ,  so didst thou . 	why ,  so did you . 
why ,  so didst thou . 	why ,  so did you . 
come they of noble family ? 	do they come from good families ? 
why ,  so didst thou . 	why ,  so did you . 
seem they religious ? 	do they seem religious ? 
why ,  so didst thou . 	why ,  so did you . 
such and so finely bolted didst thou seem . 	that’s how sound a man you appeared . 
and thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot To mark the full - fraught man and best endued With some suspicion . 	your fall has left a blot that opens even the best and brightest to suspicion . 
I will weep for thee ,  For this revolt of thine methinks is like Another fall of man . —Their faults are open . 	this treachery of yours is like the second
I arrest thee of high treason ,  by the name of Richard ,  Earl of Cambridge . 	richard Earl of Cambridge ,  I arrest you for high treason . 
I arrest thee of high treason ,  by the name of Henry ,  Lord Scroop of Masham . 	henry Lord Scroop of Masham ,  I arrest you for high treason . 
I arrest thee of high treason ,  by the name of Thomas Grey ,  knight ,  of Northumberland . 	thomas Grey ,  knight ,  of Northumberland ,  I arrest you for high treason . 
our purposes God justly hath discovered ,  And I repent my fault more than my death ,  Which I beseech Your Highness to forgive ,  Although my body pay the price of it . 	I regret my crime more than my death ,  and I beg your Highness to forgive me ,  while punishing my body with death . 
for me ,  the gold of France did not seduce ,  Although I did admit it as a motive The sooner to effect what I intended; But God be thankèd for prevention ,  Which I in sufferance heartily will rejoice ,  Beseeching God and you to pardon me . 	but I thank God that I failed in my scheme ,  and I rejoice in paying the penalty ,  as I beg God and you to pardon me . 
never did faithful subject more rejoice At the discovery of most dangerous treason Than I do at this hour joy o'er myself ,  Prevented from a damnèd enterprise . 	no faithful subject ever rejoiced more at the discovery of most dangerous treason than I now rejoice that I was thwarted in a damnable undertaking . 
my fault ,  but not my body ,  pardon ,  sovereign . 	pardon my crime ,  sovereign ,  but not my person . 
god quit you in His mercy . 	may God in His mercy forgive you . 
touching our person ,  seek we no revenge ,  But we our kingdom’s safety must so tender ,  Whose ruin you have sought ,  that to her laws We do deliver you . 	I seek no revenge for myself ,  but so dearly do I hold the safety of my kingdom ,  which you sought to destroy ,  that you must be punished according to her laws . 
get you therefore hence ,  Poor miserable wretches ,  to your death ,  The taste whereof God of His mercy give You patience to endure ,  and true repentance Of all your dear offences . —Bear them hence . 	so go to your deaths ,  poor miserable wretches ,  the pain of which may merciful God give you the strength to endure . 
we doubt not of a fair and lucky war ,  Since God so graciously hath brought to light This dangerous treason lurking in our way To hinder our beginnings . 	I have no doubt that it will be a swift and successful war ,  since God so graciously exposed this dangerous plot . 
we doubt not now But every rub is smoothèd on our way . 	I’m now sure that every bump in the road has been removed . 
then forth ,  dear countrymen . 	let’s go forth ,  dear countrymen . 
no king of England if not king of France . 	I’ll be no king of England if I’m not also king of France . 
for Falstaff ,  he is dead ,  and we must earn therefore . 	no ,  because my manly heart is grieving . 
he’s in Arthur’s bosom ,  if ever man went to Arthur’s bosom . 	bardolph ,  be happy . —Nym ,  rouse your bragging spirits . —Boy ,  be brave . 
I hoped there was no need to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet . 	oh ,  no ,  he’s surely not in hell . 
they say he cried out of sack . 	he’s in  They say he cried out against sherry . 
ay ,  that he did . 	yes ,  he did . 
and of women . 	and women . 
nay ,  that he did not . 	no ,  he did not . 
a could never abide carnation . 	he could never bear carnation . 
twas a color he never liked . 	It was a color he never did like . 
he said once the devil would have him about women . 	he once said the devil would get him because of women . 
he did in some sort ,  indeed ,  handle women ,  but then he was rheumatic ,  and talked of the Whore of Babylon . 	he did touch on women a bit ,  but his body was aching with fever and he talked about the Whore of Babylon . 
do you not remember he saw a flea stick upon Bardolph’s nose ,  and he said it was a black soul burning in hell ? 	don’t you remember how he saw a flea land on Bardolph’s nose and said it was a black soul burning in hell ? 
shall we shog ? 	well ,  the  Shall we get moving ? 
the King will be gone from Southampton . 	the king will already have left Southampton . 
look to my chattels and my movables . 	look after my goods and possessions . 
therefore ,   Go ,  clear thy crystals . —Yoke - fellows in arms ,  Let us to France ,  like horse - leeches ,  my boys ,  To suck ,  to suck ,  the very blood to suck . 	my lord ,  this bill that’s being proposed is the same one that was proposed in the eleventh year of old King Henry’s reign . 
my lord ,  I’ll tell you that self bill is urged Which in th' eleventh year of the last king’s reign Was like ,  and had indeed against us passed But that the scambling and unquiet time Did push it out of farther question . 	everyone thought it would pass then ,  and it probably would have had it not been for the great civil unrest and uncertainty of the time ,  which required the matter to be put off . 
but how ,  my lord ,  shall we resist it now ? 	but how will we keep it from being passed now ,  my lord ? 
It must be thought on . 	we have to think about that . 
If it pass against us ,  We lose the better half of our possession ,  For all the temporal lands which men devout By testament have given to the Church Would they strip from us ,  being valued thus:  “ As much as would maintain ,  to the King’s honor ,  Full fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights ,  Six thousand and two hundred good esquires; And ,  to relief of lazars and weak age Of indigent faint souls past corporal toil ,  A hundred almshouses right well supplied; And to the coffers of the King besides ,  A thousand pounds by th' year .  ”  Thus runs the bill . 	If it does pass ,  the Church will lose more than half of what it possesses ,  because the bill would strip us of enough real estate left to the church by wealthy ,  pious men in their wills to support fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights ,  six thousand two hundred squires ,  and a hundred well - supplied almshouses for the relief of lepers ,  old - age pensioners ,  the poor ,  and those too weak or sick to work . 
this would drink deep . 	that’s what the bill says . 
but what prevention ? 	but what can be done to prevent it ? 
the king is full of grace and fair regard . 	the king is virtuous and kind . 
and a true lover of the holy Church . 	and a true lover of the holy Church . 
and that’s but unwholesome food ,  they say . 	I’ve heard that’s not the most nourishing food . 
touch her soft mouth ,  and march . 	kiss her soft mouth ,  and we’ll be off . 
farewell ,  hostess . 	farewell ,  hostess . 
let housewifery appear . 	be thrifty . 
keep close ,  I thee command . 	and keep yourself hidden ,  I command you . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
adieu . 	adieu . 
therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Brittany ,  Of Brabant and of Orléans ,  shall make forth ,  And you ,  Prince Dauphin ,  with all swift dispatch ,  To line and new - repair our towns of war With men of courage and with means defendant . 	therefore the dukes of Berri ,  Bretagne ,  Brabant ,  and Orléans shall advance ,  and you ,  Prince Dauphin ,  will swiftly entrench and fortify our fortress towns with men of courage and the means to defend themselves . 
for England his approaches makes as fierce As waters to the sucking of a gulf . 	the king of England’s approach is as forceful as a whirlpool . 
and let us do it with no show of fear ,  No ,  with no more than if we heard that England Were busied with a Whitsun morris - dance . 	let’s do it with no show of anxiety—no ,  with no more fear than if we’d heard that the English were busying themselves with folk dancing . 
for ,  my good liege ,  she is so idly kinged ,  Her scepter so fantastically borne By a vain ,  giddy ,  shallow ,  humorous youth ,  That fear attends her not . 	because ,  my good king ,  England is so poorly led ,  her scepter so foolishly borne by a vain ,  silly ,  shallow ,  impulsive youth ,  that she’s hardly a threat . 
oh peace ,  Prince Dauphin ! 	oh ,  please ,  Prince Dauphin ! 
you are too much mistaken in this king . 	you are completely wrong about this king . 
question your Grace the late ambassadors With what great state he heard their embassy ,  How well supplied with noble counselors ,  How modest in exception ,  and withal How terrible in constant resolution ,  And you shall find his vanities forespent Were but the outside of the Roman Brutus ,  Covering discretion with a coat of folly ,  As gardeners do with ordure hide those roots That shall first spring and be most delicate . 	talk to the ambassadors who’ve just come back: ask them how majestically he responded to their message ,  how well supplied he was with good advisors ,  how restrained in expressing his displeasure ,  and ,  moreover ,  how terrifyingly firm he was in his resolve . 
well ,  ’tis not so ,  my Lord High Constable . 	you’ll discover that his youthful follies were like the persona that  Well ,  you’re wrong ,  my Lord High Constable . 
but though we think it so ,  it is no matter . 	but even if I thought you were right ,  it doesn’t matter . 
In cases of defense ’tis best to weigh The enemy more mighty than he seems . 	when it comes to defense ,  it’s best to assume that the enemy is more powerful than he seems . 
up in the air ,  crowned with the golden sun ,  Saw his heroical seed and smiled to see him Mangle the work of nature and deface The patterns that by God and by French fathers Had twenty years been made . 	crowned by the golden sun ,  observed his heroic son and smiled to see him mangle the work of nature ,  French youth whose fathers and God had nurtured for twenty years ,  since they were babies . 
this is a stem Of that victorious stock ,  and let us fear The native mightiness and fate of him . 	this king is a branch of that same victorious stock . 
ambassadors from Harry King of England Do crave admittance to your Majesty . 	ambassadors of Harry ,  king of England ,  request a hearing with your Majesty . 
we’ll give them present audience . 	we’ll see them immediately . 
go ,  and bring them . 	bring them right in . 
good my sovereign ,  Take up the English short ,  and let them know Of what a monarchy you are the head . 	my good King ,  surprise the English and let them know what kind of kingdom you rule over . 
self - love ,  my liege ,  is not so vile a sin As self - neglecting . 	self - love ,  my liege ,  is not so great a sin as self - neglect . 
from our brother England ? 	from our brother monarch ,  the king of England ? 
or else what follows ? 	and what will happen if I don’t ? 
bloody constraint ,  for if you hide the crown Even in your hearts ,  there will he rake for it . 	bloodshed will force you to . 
for us ,  we will consider of this further . 	I’ll think it over . 
tomorrow shall you bear our full intent Back to our brother England . 	tomorrow ,  I’ll let you know what I’ve decided and what answer you should deliver to the king of England . 
for the Dauphin ,  I stand here for him . 	regarding the Dauphin ,  you can speak to me . 
what to him from England ? 	what’s the message from the English king ? 
scorn and defiance ,  slight regard ,  contempt ,  And anything that may not misbecome The mighty sender ,  doth he prize you at . 	scorn and defiance ,  indifference ,  contempt ,  and any insult that wouldn’t disgrace the mighty sender—that’s the value he puts on you . 
thus says my king: an if your father’s Highness Do not ,  in grant of all demands at large ,  Sweeten the bitter mock you sent his Majesty ,  He’ll call you to so hot an answer of it That caves and womby vaultages of France Shall chide your trespass and return your mock In second accent of his ordinance . 	and my king goes on: if your royal father does not sweeten the bitter insult you sent my king and grant all our demands ,  Henry’s artillery will give you so resounding an answer that the very caves and vaulted cathedrals of France shall echo your mocking of him back in your face . 
to that end ,  As matching to his youth and vanity ,  I did present him with the Paris balls . 	to that end ,  I presented him with the tennis balls ,  the perfect expression of his inexperience and frivolity . 
he’ll make your Paris Louvre shake for it ,  Were it the mistress court of mighty Europe . 	he’ll make your palace tremble for this insult ,  even if it were the mightiest in all of Europe . 
and be assured you’ll find a difference ,  As we his subjects have in wonder found ,  Between the promise of his greener days And these he masters now . 	and ,  make no mistake ,  you’ll find ,  as we his subjects have ,  an amazing difference between the king as a young man and the way he is now . 
tomorrow shall you know our mind at full . 	we’ll give you an answer tomorrow . 
dispatch us with all speed ,  lest that our king Come here himself to question our delay ,  For he is footed in this land already . 	don’t take too long ,  unless you want our king to come after me to ask what’s holding things up ,  because he’s already landed here . 
you shall be soon dispatched with fair conditions . 	you’ll have your answer soon . 
a night is but small breath and little pause To answer matters of this consequence . 	a night isn’t much time for addressing matters of this importance . 
thus with imagined wing our swift scene flies In motion of no less celerity Than that of thought . 	and so ,  on the wings of imagination and at the speed of thought ,  our scene flies swiftly on . 
play with your fancies and in them behold ,  Upon the hempen tackle ,  shipboys climbing . 	picture the cabin boys climbing around the rigging . 
hear the shrill whistle ,  which doth order give To sounds confused . 	hear the shrill whistle that brings order to the hubbub . 
behold the threaden sails ,  Borne with th' invisible and creeping wind ,  Draw the huge bottoms through the furrowed sea ,  Breasting the lofty surge . 	picture the linen sails driven by the invisible and subtle wind as they pull the vast hulls through the wrinkled sea ,  breasting the high waves . 
oh ,  do but think You stand upon the rivage and behold A city on th' inconstant billows dancing ,  For so appears this fleet majestical Holding due course to Harfleur . 	pretend that you’re standing on the shore ,  watching a city dance on the shifting waves ,  and you’ll have an idea of the look of this majestic fleet as it holds a straight course for Harfleur . 
follow ,  follow ! 	follow it ,  follow it ! 
work ,  work your thoughts ,  and therein see a siege . 	once there ,  make your thoughts work harder ,  and witness a siege . 
behold the ordnance on their carriages ,  With fatal mouths gaping on girded Harfleur . 	take in the wheeled canons with their deadly gaping mouths trained on the walled city of Harfleur . 
suppose th' Ambassador from the French comes back ,  Tells Harry that the king doth offer him	Imagine the French ambassador returning to inform Harry that the king offers him
katherine his daughter and with her ,  to dowry ,  Some petty and unprofitable dukedoms . 	his daughter ,  Katherine ,  with some insignificant ,  unprofitable dukedoms as her dowry . 
still be kind And eke out our performance with your mind . 	Indulge us further and supplement our performance with your own imaginings . 
once more unto the breach ,  dear friends ,  once more ,  Or close the wall up with our English dead ! 	attack the breach in the city wall once more ,  dear friends ,  attack it once more—or else let’s close it up with English corpses . 
now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide ,  Hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit To his full height . 	now grit your teeth and let your nostrils flare . 
on ,  on ,  you noblest English ,  Whose blood is fet from fathers of war - proof ,  Fathers that ,  like so many Alexanders ,  Have in these parts from morn till even fought And sheathed their swords for lack of argument . 	on ,  on ,  you noblest Englishmen ,  descended as you are from battle - tested fathers ,  fathers who ,  like so many Alexander the Greats ,  have fought in these regions from morning until night ,  sheathing their swords only when there was no one left to fight . 
dishonor not your mothers . 	don’t dishonor your mothers ! 
now attest That those whom you called fathers did beget you . 	prove that the men you call your fathers did truly conceive you . 
and you ,  good yeoman ,  Whose limbs were made in England ,  show us here The mettle of your pasture . 	and you ,  good farmers ,  whose limbs were made in England ,  show us here the vigor of your upbringing . 
let us swear That you are worth your breeding ,  which I doubt not , 	prove you are worthy of your birth ,  which I do not doubt for a moment . 
we are blessèd in the change . 	we are fortunate in the change . 
list his discourse of war ,  and you shall hear A fearful battle rendered you in music . 	listen to him talk about war ,  and you’ll hear elegant and thrilling accounts of the battles . 
follow your spirit ,  and upon this charge Cry  “ God for Harry ,  England ,  and Saint George !  ” 	follow your spirit ,  and as you charge cry ,   “ God for Harry ,  England ,  and Saint George !  ” 
on ,  on ,  on ,  on ,  on ! 	on ,  on ,  on ,  on ,  on ! 
to the breach ,  to the breach ! 	to the breach ,  to the breach ! 
pray thee ,  corporal ,  stay . 	please ,  corporal ,  stop ! 
the plainsong ”  is most just ,  for humors do abound . 	you can see how it is all around . 
would I were in an alehouse in London ! 	I wish I were in an alehouse in London ! 
I would give all my fame for a pot of ale ,  and safety . 	I would give all my glory for a mug of ale and safety . 
and I . 	me too . 
up to the breach ,  you dogs ! 	up to the breach ,  you dogs ! 
avaunt ,  you cullions ! 	go ! 
be merciful ,  great duke ,  to men of mold . 	great Duke ,  be merciful to mortal men . 
good bawcock ,  'bate thy rage . 	dear man ,  calm your rage . 
use lenity ,  sweet chuck . 	be lenient ,  dearest ! 
these be good humors . 	this is healthy talk . 
your Honor wins bad humors . 	your Honor’s is unhealthy talk . 
as young as I am ,  I have observed these three swashers . 	young though I am ,  I’ve been observing these three blowhards closely . 
I am boy to them all three ,  but all they three ,  though they would serve me ,  could not be man to me . 	yet not one among them ,  if all three were to wait on me ,  could be my  “ man ,  ”  because three such fakes don’t amount to a man . 
they will steal anything and call it purchase . 	they will steal anything and call it spoils . 
they would have me as familiar with men’s pockets as their gloves or their handkerchers ,  which makes much against my manhood ,  if I should take from another’s pocket to put into mine ,  for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs . 	they would like me to be as familiar with men’s pockets as their gloves and handkerchiefs ,  which goes against my manhood ,  because to take something from another’s pocket and put it into my own is plain stealing . 
I must leave them and seek some better service . 	I must leave them and seek some better employment . 
their villainy goes against my weak stomach ,  and therefore I must cast it up . 	their villainy nauseates me ,  and I must therefore vomit it up . 
to the mines ? 	the tunnels ! 
the concavities of it is not sufficient ,  for ,  look you ,  th' athversary ,  you may discuss unto the duke ,  look you ,  is digt himself four yard under the countermines . 	for the enemy ,  see—and you can explain this to the duke ,  see—has dug its own tunnels four yards below ours . 
by Cheshu ,  I think he will plow up all if there is not better directions . 	by Jesus ,  I think they will blow up everything if we don’t improve our tactics . 
the duke of Gloucester ,  to whom the order of the siege is given ,  is altogether directed by an Irishman ,  a very valiant gentleman ,  i' faith . 	the duke of Gloucester ,  who has command over the siege ,  is in consultation with an Irishman ,  a very valiant gentleman indeed . 
It is Captain Macmorris ,  is it not ? 	It’s Captain Macmorris ,  right ? 
I think it be . 	I think so . 
by Cheshu ,  he is an ass ,  as in the world . 	jesus ,  he’s an ass if there ever was one ! 
I will verify as much in his beard . 	I will say as much to his face . 
he has no more directions in the true disciplines of the wars ,  look you ,  of the Roman disciplines ,  than is a puppy dog . 	he knows no more about the proper practice of war ,  see—the ancient practices—than a puppy . 
here he comes ,  and the Scots captain ,  Captain Jamy ,  with him . 	here he comes with Captain Jamy ,  the Scots captain . 
captain Jamy is a marvelous falorous gentleman ,  that is certain ,  and of great expedition and knowledge in th' aunchient wars ,  upon my particular knowledge of his directions . 	captain Jamy is a wonderfully valorous gentleman ,  that’s certain ,  one with great learning and knowledge concerning ancient warfare ,  I happen to know from his maneuvers . 
by Cheshu ,  he will maintain his argument as well as any military man in the world in the disciplines of the pristine wars of the Romans . 	by Jesus ,  he will defend his position on the practices of the ancient Roman wars as well as any military man in the world . 
I say gudday ,  Captain Fluellen . 	good day to you ,  Captain Fluellen . 
godden to your Worship ,  good Captain James . 	good evening to your Worship ,  good Captain James . 
how now ,  Captain Macmorris ,  have you quit the mines ? 	tell me ,  Captain Macmorris ,  have you left the tunnels ? 
have the pioneers given o'er ? 	have the excavators stopped work ? 
by Chrish ,  la ,  ’tish ill done . 	christ ,  it’s a disaster . 
by my hand I swear ,  and my father’s soul ,  the work ish ill done . 	I swear by this hand and my father’s soul ,  the whole thing is a disaster . 
It ish give over . 	It’s all stopped . 
I would have blowed up the town ,  so Chrish save me ,  la ,  in an hour . 	I could have blown up the town in an hour . 
oh ,  ’tish ill done ,  ’tish ill done ,  by my hand ,  ’tish ill done . 	oh ,  it’s a disaster ,  a disaster ,  by this hand ,  it’s a disaster . 
captain Macmorris ,  I beseech you now ,  will you voutsafe me ,  look you ,  a few disputations with you as partly touching or concerning the disciplines of the war ,  the Roman wars ? 	captain Macmorris ,  I beg your pardon ,  but would you grant me a discussion or two with you ,  see ,  partly touching on or concerning the practice of war ,  the Roman wars ,  for the sake of argument ,  see ,  and friendly conversation ? 
In the way of argument ,  look you ,  and friendly communication ,  partly to satisfy my opinion ,  and partly for the satisfaction ,  look you ,  of my mind ,  as touching the direction of the military discipline ,  that is the point . 	partly to confirm my opinion and partly for the satisfaction ,  see ,  of my mind ,  with respect to the demands of proper military practice—that’s the point ? 
hence ! 	away ! 
home ,  you idle creatures ,  get you home . 	go home ,  you idle creatures ,  go home ! 
why ,  sir ,  a carpenter . 	why ,  sir ,  I’m a carpenter . 
where is thy leather apron and thy rule ? 	where is your leather apron and your ruler ? 
truly ,  sir ,  in respect of a fine workman ,  I am but ,  as you would say ,  a cobbler . 	truly ,  sir ,  in respect of a fine worker ,  I’m only ,  as you would say a cobbler . 
but what trade art thou ? 	but what’s your trade ? 
answer me directly . 	just tell me that . 
a trade ,  sir ,  that ,  I hope ,  I may use with a safe con -  science ,  which is indeed ,  sir ,  a mender of bad soles . 	a trade ,  sir ,  that I hope I may use with a clear conscience ,  which is indeed ,  sir ,  a mender of bad soles . 
what trade ,  thou knave ? 	what’s your trade ,  you deceitful man ? 
thou naughty knave ,  what trade ? 	you naughty ,  Deceitful man ,  what’s your trade ? 
nay ,  I beseech you ,  sir ,  be not out with me; yet ,  if you be out ,  sir ,  I can mend you . 	no ,  Please ,  sir ,  don’t be angry with me; yet ,  if you’re angry ,  sir ,  I can mend you . 
what mean'st thou by that ? 	what do you mean by that ? 
mend me ,  thou saucy -  fellow ! 	mend me ,  you rude fellow ! 
why ,  sir ,  cobble you . 	yes ,  sir ,  mend you . 
thou art a cobbler ,  art thou ? 	you’re a mender ,  are you ? 
truly ,  Sir ,  all that I live by is with the awl; I meddle with no tradesman's matters ,  nor women's matters ,  but with awl . 	truly ,  Sir ,  all that I live by is with the sharp little tool; I don’t stick my nose into any tradesman's matters ,  or women's matters ,  but with awl . 
I am indeed ,  sir ,  a surgeon to old shoes; when they are in great danger ,  I recover them . 	I’m indeed ,  sir ,  a surgeon to old shoes; when they’re in great danger ,  I re - cover them . 
as proper men as ever trod upon neats - leather have gone upon my handiwork . 	many proper men that ever walked on cowhide leather have walked on my work . 
but wherefore art not in thy shop today ? 	but why aren’t you in your shop today ? 
why dost thou lead these men about the streets ? 	why do you lead these men in the streets ? 
truly ,  sir ,  to wear out their shoes ,  to get myself into more work . 	truly ,  sir ,  so I can wear out their shoes to get myself more work . 
but indeed ,  sir ,  we make holiday ,  to see Caesar and to rejoice in his triumph . 	but ,  really ,  sir ,  we have taken a holiday to see Caesar and to rejoice in his triumph . 
wherefore rejoice ? 	why rejoice ? 
what conquest brings he home ? 	what conquest does he bring home ? 
what tributaries follow him to Rome ,  To grace in captive bonds his chariot - wheels ? 	what people who pay him tribute follow him to Rome ,  To decorate his chariot’s wheels with their chains and bonds ? 
you blocks ,  you stones ,  you worse than senseless things ! 	you blocks ,  you stones ,  you worse than senseless things ! 
o you hard hearts ,  you cruel men of Rome ,  Knew you not Pompey ? 	o you hard hearts ,  you cruel men of Rome ,  Didn’t you know Pompey ? 
many a time and oft Have you climb'd up to walls and battlements ,  To towers and windows ,  yea ,  to chimney tops ,  Your infants in your arms ,  and there have sat The live - long day with patient expectation To see great Pompey pass the streets of Rome . 	many times ,  You’ve climbed up to the walls and lookout posts ,  To the towers and windows ,  yes ,  to chimney tops ,  Your infants in your arms ,  and you’ve sat there The entire day ,  waiting patiently To see great Pompey pass through the streets of Rome . 
and when you saw his chariot but appear ,  Have you not made an universal shout ,  That Tiber trembled underneath her banks To hear the replication of your sounds Made in her concave shores ? 	and when you saw his chariot appear ,  Haven’t you made one great big shout that was so loud The Tiber River trembled underneath her banks To hear the echo of your sounds That bounced off her hollow shores ? 
and do you now put on your best attire ? 	and do you now put on your best attire ? 
and do you now cull out a holiday ? 	and now you decide to call a holiday ? 
and do you now strew flowers in his way That comes in triumph over Pompey's blood ? 	and now you throw flowers in the way if the man That comes in triumph over Pompey's death ? 
be gone ! 	get going ! 
run to your houses ,  fall upon your knees ,  Pray to the gods to intermit the plague That needs must light on this ingratitude . 	run to your houses ,  fall on your knees ,  Pray to the gods to stop the plague That must be the punishment for this ingratitude . 
go ,  go ,  good countrymen ,  and ,  for this fault ,  Assemble all the poor men of your sort ,  Draw them to Tiber banks ,  and weep your tears Into the channel ,  till the lowest stream Do kiss the most exalted shores of all . 	go ,  go ,  good countrymen ,  and ,  for this mistake ,  Get all the poor men like you together ,  Bring them to the Tiber River’s banks and weep your tears Into the water ,  until the lowest stream Floods the highest shores of heaven . 
see ,  whether their basest metal be not moved; They vanish tongue - tied in their guiltiness . 	see whether they’ll really do what you suggested; Their guilt made them vanish in silence . 
go you down that way towards the Capitol; This way will I .  Disrobe the images ,  If you do find them deck'd with ceremonies . 	you go down that way towards the Capitol; I’ll go this way . 
may we do so ? 	may we do that ? 
you know it is the feast of Lupercal . 	you know it is the feast of the priest Lupercus . 
It is no matter; let no images Be hung with Caesar's trophies . 	It doesn’t matter; don’t let the statues Be hung with Caesar's trophies . 
I'll about ,  And drive away the vulgar from the streets; So do you too ,  where you perceive them thick . 	I'll go around And drive the low people away from the streets; You do this too ,  where you see many of them gathered together . 
caesar speaks . 	caesar speaks . 
stand you directly in Antonio's way ,  When he doth run his course . 	stand directly in Antony’s way ,  When he runs his course . —Antony , — Caesar ,  my lord ? 
I shall remember . 	I’ll remember . 
when Caesar says  “ Do this ,  ”  it is perform'd . 	when Caesar says ,   " Do this ,  "  I do it . 
set on ,  and leave no ceremony out . 	go on ,  and don’t leave any ritual out . 
caesar ! 	caesar ! 
ha ! 	ha ! 
who calls ? 	who calls ? 
peace yet again ! 	everyone ,  quiet . — Peace ! 
who is it in the press that calls on me ? 	who’s calling for me ? 
I hear a tongue ,  shriller than all the music ,  Cry  “ Caesar .  ”  Speak ,  Caesar is turn'd to hear . 	I hear a voice that is more shrill than all the music Yelling ,   " Caesar "  ! 
beware the ides of March . 	beware the Ides of March . 
what man is that ? 	who is that man ? 
a soothsayer bids you beware the ides of March . 	a man who can tell the future is telling you to beware March 15 . 
set him before me; let me see his face . 	bring him here; let me see his face . 
fellow ,  come from the throng; look upon Caesar . 	fellow ,  come here; look at Caesar . 
what say'st thou to me now ? 	what do you say to me now ? 
speak once again . 	speak again . 
beware the ides of March . 	beware the Ides of March . 
he is a dreamer; let us leave him . 	he’s a dreamer; let’s get away from him . 
pass . 	let’s go . 
will you go see the order of the course ? 	will you go see the order of the winners of the race ? 
I am not gamesome; I do lack some part Of that quick spirit that is in Antony . 	I don’t like games; I lack some part Of that quick spirit that Antony has . 
let me not hinder ,  Cassius ,  your desires; I'll leave you . 	don’t let me hold you up ,  Cassius ,  go if you like; I'll leave you . 
brutus ,  I do observe you now of late; I have not from your eyes that gentleness And show of love as I was wont to have; You bear too stubborn and too strange a hand Over your friend that loves you . 	you’re too stubborn and too strange To your friend that loves you . 
vexed I am Of late with passions of some difference ,  Conceptions only proper to myself ,  Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors; But let not therefore my good friends be grieved— Among which number ,  Cassius ,  be you one— Nor construe any further my neglect Than that poor Brutus with himself at war Forgets the shows of love to other men . 	I’m annoyed lately With different passions ,  Ideas that only I can know ,  Which are perhaps seen in my behavior; But don’t let my good friends be upset— Cassius ,  you’re one of them— Or try to understand my indifference any further Than that poor Brutus ,  at war with himself ,  Forgets to show friendship to other men . 
then ,  Brutus ,  I have much mistook your passion ,  By means whereof this breast of mine hath buried Thoughts of great value ,  worthy cogitations . 	then ,  Brutus ,  I have really misunderstood your passions ,  Which is why this my heart has forgotten Thoughts of great value ,  worthy thoughts . 
tell me ,  good Brutus ,  can you see your face ? 	tell me ,  good Brutus ,  can you see your face ? 
no ,  Cassius ,  for the eye sees not itself But by reflection ,  by some other things . 	no ,  Cassius ,  because the eye can only see itself In a mirror or by some other thing like it . 
tis just ,  And it is very much lamented ,  Brutus ,  That you have no such mirrors as will turn Your hidden worthiness into your eye That you might see your shadow . 	and it’s very much lamented ,  Brutus ,  That you don’t have any mirrors that will Let you see your own hidden worthiness ,  Any mirrors that you might let you see your shadow . 
I have heard Where many of the best respect in Rome ,  Except immortal Caesar ,  speaking of Brutus ,  And groaning underneath this age's yoke ,  Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes . 	I have heard that many of the best - respected men in Rome , — Except immortal Caesar ! — speak about Brutus ,  And groaning underneath the political burden of this age ,  Have wished that noble Brutus could see what they see . 
Into what dangers would you lead me ,  Cassius ,  That you would have me seek into myself For that which is not in me ? 	what dangers would you lead me into ,  Cassius ,  That you want me to search for something That I don’t have in myself ? 
therefore ,  good Brutus ,  be prepared to hear ,  And since you know you cannot see yourself So well as by reflection ,  I your glass Will modestly discover to yourself That of yourself which you yet know not of . 	for that reason ,  good Brutus ,  get ready to hear what I have to say; And since you know you can’t see yourself Except in a mirror ,  I’ll be your mirror ,  And will modestly let you see That in yourself which you don’t know about . 
and be not jealous on me ,  gentle Brutus; Were I a common laugher ,  or did use To stale with ordinary oaths my love To every new protester ,  if you know That I do fawn on men and hug them hard And after scandal them ,  or if you know That I profess myself in banqueting To all the rout ,  then hold me dangerous . 	and don’t be angry with me ,  gentle Brutus; I wish I were a common comedian ,  or used To urinating on my friendship with ordinary oaths To every new opponent; if you know That I show false friendship to some men ,  and hug them hard And after that ,  tell lies about them ,  or if you know That I profess myself at feasts to be friends with The entire place ,  then think about me dangerous . 
what means this shouting ? 	what does this shouting mean ? 
I do fear the people Choose Caesar for their king . 	I’m afraid the people Are going to choose Caesar for their king . 
ay ,  do you fear it ? 	yes ,  you fear it ? 
then must I think you would not have it so . 	then I must think you wouldn’t want it . 
what is it that you would impart to me ? 	what do you want to tell me ? 
I know that virtue to be in you ,  Brutus ,  As well as I do know your outward favor . 	I know you’ve that virtue ,  Brutus ,  As well as I know your face . 
well ,  honor is the subject of my story . 	well ,  honor is the subject of my story . 
I cannot tell what you and other men Think of this life ,  but ,  for my single self ,  I had as lief not be as live to be In awe of such a thing as I myself . 	I can’t tell what you and other men Think of this life; but ,  for myself alone ,  I would rather not live to be In awe of such a thing as I’m . 
so indeed he did . 	and indeed he did so . 
and this man Is now become a god ,  and Cassius is A wretched creature ,  and must bend his body If Caesar carelessly but nod on him . 	and now this man Has become a god ,  and Cassius is A wretched creature ,  and must bow ,  Even if Caesar only nods at him carelessly . 
he had a fever when he was in Spain ,  And when the fit was on him ,  I did mark How he did shake . 	he had a fever when he was in Spain ,  And ,  when the fit was on him ,  I noticed How he shook . 
I did hear him groan . 	I heard him groan . 
another general shout ! 	another general shout ! 
I do believe that these applauses are For some new honors that are heap'd on Caesar . 	I believe that this applause is For some new honors that are to be heaped on Caesar . 
why ,  man ,  he doth bestride the narrow world Like a Colossus ,  and we petty men Walk under his huge legs and peep about To find ourselves dishonorable graves . 	why ,  man ,  he stands on top of the narrow world Like the Colossus of Rhodes ,  and we little men Walk under his huge legs and peep about To find ourselves disgraceful graves . 
brutus ,  and Caesar: what should be in that Caesar ? 	brutus "  and  " Caesar .  ”  What is in that name ,   " Caesar ? 
why should that name be sounded more than yours ? 	why should that name be sounded any more than yours ? 
write them together ,  yours is as fair a name; Sound them ,  it doth become the mouth as well; Weigh them ,  it is as heavy; conjure with 'em ,  Brutus will start a spirit as soon as Caesar . 	write them down together; your name is just as good; Say them out loud; your name sounds just as good; Think about their importance ,  yours is just as important; Use them to contact ghosts ,   " Brutus "  will bring a spirit As soon as  " Caesar . 
now ,  in the names of all the gods at once ,  Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed That he is grown so great ? 	now ,  in the names of all the gods at once ,  What meat does this our Caesar eat That he’s grown so great ? 
age ,  thou art shamed ! 	age ,  shame on you ! 
rome ,  thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods ! 	rome ,  there are no more people of noble bloods in you ! 
when went there by an age since the great flood But it was famed with more than with one man ? 	has there ever been any age since Noah and the flood That was not famous because of more than one man ? 
when could they say till now that talk'd of Rome That her wide walls encompass'd but one man ? 	when could they say ,  until now ,  those that talked about Rome ,  That her wide walls were ruled by only one man ? 
now is it Rome indeed ,  and room enough ,  When there is in it but one only man . 	Is Rome still Rome ,  and does it have room enough ,  When there is in it only one man ? 
o ,  you and I have heard our fathers say There was a Brutus once that would have brook'd The eternal devil to keep his state in Rome As easily as a king . 	o ,  you and I have heard our fathers say There was a Brutus once that would have fought The eternal devil to keep his status in Rome ,  As easily as he would fight a king ! 
that you do love me ,  I am nothing jealous; What you would work me to ,  I have some aim . 	I’m not angry that you’re my friend; As for what you’re persuading me to do ,  I have some plans . 
how I have thought of this and of these times ,  I shall recount hereafter; for this present ,  I would not ,  so with love I might entreat you ,  Be any further moved . 	I’ll tell you later what I’ve thought about this And about these times , ; for now ,  Please don’t to try to persuade me any further . 
what you have said I will consider; what you have to say I will with patience hear ,  and find a time Both meet to hear and answer such high things . 	I’ll think about what you’ve said; I’ll patiently hear what you’ve to say ,  and find a time When I can both meet with you to hear and answer such high things . 
I am glad that my weak words Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus . 	I’m glad that my weak words Have brought out this show of fire from Brutus . 
the games are done ,  and Caesar is returning . 	the games are finished ,  and Caesar is returning . 
as they pass by ,  pluck Casca by the sleeve ,  And he will ,  after his sour fashion ,  tell you What hath proceeded worthy note today . 	as they pass by ,  grab Casca by the sleeve; And he’ll ,  in his sour way ,  tell you What notable events have happened today . 
but ,  look you ,  Cassius ,  The angry spot doth glow on Caesar's brow ,  And all the rest look like a chidden train: Calpurnia's cheek is pale ,  and Cicero Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes As we have seen him in the Capitol ,  Being cross'd in conference by some senators . 	calpurnia's cheek is pale ,  and Cicero Looks with the same beady and fiery eyes That we have seen on him in the Capitol ,  When some senators disagreed with him in a meeting . 
casca will tell us what the matter is . 	casca will tell us what’s wrong . 
caesar ? 	antonius , — Caesar ? 
fear him not ,  Caesar; he's not dangerous; He is a noble Roman and well given . 	don’t be afraid of him ,  Caesar; he's not dangerous; He’s a noble Roman and has a good disposition . 
would he were fatter ! 	I wish he were fatter ! 
he reads much ,  He is a great observer ,  and he looks Quite through the deeds of men . 	he reads a lot; He’s a great observer ,  and actually he looks Through the deeds of men . 
such men as he be never at heart's ease Whiles they behold a greater than themselves ,  And therefore are they very dangerous . 	such men as he is are never at ease in their hearts When they see a man greater than themselves; And for that reason they are very dangerous . 
I rather tell thee what is to be fear'd Than what I fear ,  for always I am Caesar . 	I would rather tell you what to be afraid of More than what I am afraid of ,  for I’m always Caesar . 
come on my right hand ,  for this ear is deaf ,  And tell me truly what thou think'st of him . 	come over here my right side ,  because I am deaf in this ear ,  And tell me what you really think of him . 
you pull'd me by the cloak; would you speak with me ? 	you pulled my sleeve; do you want to speak with me ? 
ay ,  Casca ,  tell us what hath chanced today ,  That Caesar looks so sad . 	yes ,  Casca ,  tell us what has happened today That makes Caesar look so sad . 
why ,  you were with him ,  were you not ? 	why ,  you were with him ,  weren’t you ? 
I should not then ask Casca what had chanced . 	If I was ,  then I shouldn’t ask Casca what had happened . 
why ,  there was a crown offered him ,  and being offered him: he put it by with the back of his hand ,  thus ,  and then the people fell a - shouting . 	why ,  there was a crown offered to him ,  and when it was Offered to him ,  he pushed it away with the back of his hand ,  like this ,  And then the people started shouting . 
what was the second noise for ? 	what was the second noise for ? 
why ,  for that too . 	why ,  for that too . 
they shouted thrice . 	they shouted three times . 
what was the last cry for ? 	what was the last cry for ? 
why ,  for that too . 	why ,  for that too . 
was the crown offered him thrice ? 	was the crown offered to him three times ? 
ay ,  marry ,  wast ,  and he put it by thrice ,  every time gentler than other ,  and at every putting by mine honest neighbors shouted . 	yes ,  damn it ,  it was ,  and he pushed it aside three times ,  Every time more gently than the last ,  and at each pushing aside ,  My honest neighbors shouted . 
who offered him the crown ? 	who offered him the crown ? 
why ,  Antony . 	why ,  Antony . 
tell us the manner of it ,  gentle Casca . 	tell us how it happened ,  gentle Casca . 
I can as well be hang'd as tell the manner of it . 	I may as well be hanged as to tell how it happened . 
It was mere foolery; I did not mark it . 	It was merely a joke; I didn’t pay attention to it . 
I saw Mark Antony offer him a crown ,  yet 'twas not a crown neither ,  'twas one of these coronets and ,  as I told you ,  he put it by once . 	I saw Mark Antony offer him a crown;—yet it wasn’t a crown either ,  it was one of these large hats;—and ,  as I told you ,  he pushed it aside once . 
but for all that ,  to my thinking ,  he would fain have had it . 	but ,  for all that ,  to my thinking ,  he seemed eager to have it . 
but ,  to my thinking ,  he was very loath to lay his fingers off it . 	but ,  to my thinking ,  he was very reluctant to remove his fingers off it . 
and then he offered it the third time; he put it the third time by; and still as he refused it ,  the rabblement hooted and clapped their chopped hands and threw up their sweaty nightcaps and uttered such a deal of stinking breath because Caesar refused the crown ,  that it had almost choked Caesar ,  for he swounded and fell down at it . 	and then he was offered it the third time; he pushed it aside the third time ,  and still ,  as he refused it ,  the crowd shouted ,  and clapped their rough hands ,  and threw their sweaty night hats into the air ,  and uttered such a great deal of stinking breath because Caesar refused the crown ,  that the smell almost choked Caesar ,  because he fainted and fell down from it . 
and for mine own part ,  I durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips and receiving the bad air . 	and ,  for mine part ,  I didn’t dare laugh for fear of opening my lips and inhaling the bad air . 
what ,  did Caesar swound ? 	what ,  did Caesar faint ? 
he fell down in the market - place and foamed at mouth and was speechless . 	he fell down in the market place ,  foamed at the mouth ,  and was speechless . 
no ,  Caesar hath it not ,  but you ,  and I ,  And honest Casca ,  we have the falling sickness . 	no ,  Caesar doesn’t have it; but you ,  and I ,  And honest Casca ,  we have epilepsy . 
I know not what you mean by that ,  but I am sure Caesar fell down . 	I don’t know what you mean by that ,  but I’m sure Caesar fell down . 
If the tag - rag people did not clap him and hiss him according as he pleased and displeased them ,  as they use to do the players in the theatre ,  I am no true man . 	If the common people didn’t applaud him and hiss at him ,  since he pleased and displeased them ,  as they used to do to the actors in the theatre ,  then I’m not really a man . 
what said he when he came unto himself ? 	what said he when he came to ? 
marry ,  before he fell down ,  when he perceived the common herd was glad he refused the crown ,  he plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his throat to cut . 	damn it ,  before he fell down ,  when he thought the common herd was glad he had refused the crown ,  he opened his shirt ,  and offered to cut his throat . 
when he came to himself again ,  he said ,  if he had done or said any thing amiss ,  he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity . 	when he came to again ,  he said ,  if he had done or said anything out of order ,  he wanted the people to think it was his infirmity . 
but there's no heed to be taken of them; if Caesar had stabbed their mothers ,  they would have done no less . 	If Caesar had stabbed their mothers ,  they would have done the same thing . 
and after that ,  he came thus sad away ? 	and ,  after that he came ,  away sad ? 
ay . 	yes . 
did Cicero say anything ? 	did Cicero say anything ? 
ay ,  he spoke Greek . 	yes ,  he spoke in Greek . 
to what effect ? 	how did that work ? 
fare you well . 	goodbye . 
there was more foolery yet ,  if could remember it . 	there was more nonsense ,  if I could only remember it . 
will you sup with me tonight ,  Casca ? 	will you have dinner with me tonight ,  Casca ? 
no ,  I am promised forth . 	no ,  I’ve got another engagement . 
will you dine with me tomorrow ? 	will you dine with me tomorrow ? 
ay ,  if I be alive ,  and your mind hold ,  and your dinner worth the eating . 	yes ,  if I’m alive ,  and your mind hold ,  and your dinner worth the eating . 
good ,  I will expect you . 	good ,  I’ll expect you . 
what a blunt fellow is this grown to be ! 	what a blunt fellow he’s turned out to be ! 
he was quick mettle when he went to school . 	he was becoming very spirited when he was in school . 
so is he now in execution Of any bold or noble enterprise ,  However he puts on this tardy form . 	so he is now in getting any bold or Noble job done; However ,  he pretends to be slow in nature . 
this rudeness is a sauce to his good wit ,  Which gives men stomach to digest his words With better appetite . 	this rudeness is the topping to his good traits ,  Which lets men accept his words With better understanding . 
and so it is . 	and so it is . 
for this time I will leave you . 	I’ll leave you now . 
tomorrow ,  if you please to speak with me ,  I will come home to you ,  or ,  if you will ,  Come home to me and I will wait for you . 	tomorrow ,  if you want to speak with me ,  I’ll come to your house; or ,  if you like ,  Come to my house ,  and I’ll wait for you . 
I will do so . 	oK ,  that’s fine . 
I will this night ,  In several hands ,  in at his windows throw ,  As if they came from several citizens ,  Writings ,  all tending to the great opinion That Rome holds of his name ,  wherein obscurely Caesar's ambition shall be glanced at . 	tonight ,  I will throw writings in his windows ,  All tending to the great opinion that Rome holds his name ,  by several different hands ,  as if they came from several citizens ,  In these writings ,  I will analyze ,  although obscurely ,  Caesar's ambition . 
and after this let Caesar seat him sure; For we will shake him ,  or worse days endure . 	and after this ,  let Caesar sit more securely on his throne ,  Because we will shake him from there ,  or endure worse days . 
good even ,  Casca . 	good evening ,  Casca . 
brought you Caesar home ? 	did you bring Caesar home ? 
why are you breathless ,  and why stare you so ? 	why are you breathless ,  and why are you staring like that ? 
are not you moved ,  when all the sway of earth Shakes like a thing unfirm ? 	aren’t you moved ,  when the entire earth Is shaking uncontrollably ? 
either there is a civil strife in heaven ,  Or else the world too saucy with the gods Incenses them to send destruction . 	either there is a civil strife in heaven ,  Or else the world has been too impudent with the gods ,  Incensing them to send destruction . 
why ,  saw you anything more wonderful ? 	why ,  have you seen anything more wonderful ? 
a common slave—you know him well by sight— Held up his left hand ,  which did flame and burn Like twenty torches join'd ,  and yet his hand ,  Not sensible of fire ,  remain'd unscorch'd . 	a common slave—you’d know him well by sight— Held up his left hand ,  which flamed and burned Like twenty torches all together ,  and yet his hand ,  Not feeling any fire ,  wasn’t even scorched . 
besides—I ha' not since put up my sword— Against the Capitol I met a lion ,  Who glazed upon me and went surly by Without annoying me: and there were drawn Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women Transformed with their fear ,  who swore they saw Men all in fire walk up and down the streets . 	besides , —I haven’t used my sword since— I met a lion ,  in front of the Capitol ,  Who glared at me ,  and angrily passed me by ,  Without attacking me ,  and there were a hundred ghastly Women gathered in a heap ,  Transformed by their fear; who swore they saw Men ,  all on fire ,  walking up and down the streets . 
and yesterday the bird of night did sit Even at noon - day upon the market - place ,  Howling and shrieking . 	and yesterday ,  the night bird sat In the marketplace ,  in the middle of the day ,  Howling and shrieking . 
when these prodigies Do so conjointly meet ,  let not men say  “ These are their reasons; they are natural ,  ”  For ,  I believe ,  they are portentous things Unto the climate that they point upon . 	when these omens All happen at the same time ,  don’t let men say  " These things have their reasons; they’re natural ,  "  For I believe they’re warning signs That predict the climate that they point to . 
Indeed ,  it is a strange - disposed time; But men may construe things after their fashion ,  Clean from the purpose of the things themselves . 	Indeed ,  time has a strange disposition But men may interpret things in whatever way they like ,  Far from the purpose of the things themselves . 
come Caesar to the Capitol tomorrow ? 	does Caesar come to the Capitol tomorrow ? 
he doth; for he did bid Antonius Send word to you he would be there tomorrow . 	he does ,  because he asked Antonius to Send word to you that he would be there tomorrow . 
good then ,  Casca . 	good then ,  Casca . 
this disturbed sky Is not to walk in . 	this disturbed sky Isn’t one to walk in . 
farewell ,  Cicero . 	goodbye ,  Cicero . 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
a Roman . 	a Roman . 
casca ,  by your voice . 	casca ,  I can tell by your voice . 
your ear is good . 	you have a good ear . 
cassius ,  what night is this ! 	cassius ,  what night this is ! 
a very pleasing night to honest men . 	a very pleasing night to honest men . 
who ever knew the heavens menace so ? 	who ever knew the heavens could be so threatening ? 
those that have known the earth so full of faults . 	those men that know the earth is full of faults . 
for my part ,  I have walk'd about the streets ,  Submitting me unto the perilous night ,  And thus unbraced ,  Casca ,  as you see ,  Have bared my bosom to the thunder - stone; And when the cross blue lightning seem'd to open The breast of heaven ,  I did present myself Even in the aim and very flash of it . 	for my part ,  I have walked about the streets ,  Giving in to the dangerous night; And ,  undressed like this ,  Casca ,  as you can see ,  I have bared my chest to the thunder bolts; And when the angry ,  blue lightning seemed to openThe chest of heaven ,  I put myself Even in the direction and the very flash of it . 
but wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens ? 	but why did you tempt the sky like that ? 
It is the part of men to fear and tremble When the most mighty gods by tokens send Such dreadful heralds to astonish us . 	It is part of men to be afraid and tremble When the most mighty gods send Lightening to astonish us . 
you are dull ,  Casca ,  and those sparks of life That should be in a Roman you do want ,  Or else you use not . 	you’re not too sharp ,  Casca ,  and those sparks of life That should be in a Roman ,  you want ,  Or else ,  you don’t use what you have . 
you look pale and gaze And put on fear and cast yourself in wonder ,  To see the strange impatience of the heavens . 	you look pale and dazed ,  And put on fear and make yourself wonder ,  To see the strange behavior of the Heavens . 
but if you would consider the true cause Why all these fires ,  why all these gliding ghosts ,  Why birds and beasts from quality and kind ,  Why old men fool ,  and children calculate ,  Why all these things change from their ordinance ,  Their natures and preformed faculties ,  To monstrous quality ,  why ,  you shall find That heaven hath infused them with these spirits To make them instruments of fear and warning Unto some monstrous state . 	but if you would think about the true cause ,  Why all these fires ,  why all these gliding ghosts ,  Why birds and beasts ,  from quality and kind; Why old men ,  fools ,  and children think about it— Why all these things change from their usual order ,  Change their natures ,  and their normal events To monstrous disorder—why ,  you shall find That Heaven has infused the lightening with these spirits ,  To make them instruments of fear and warning About some monstrous state . 
now could I ,  Casca ,  name to thee a man Most like this dreadful night ,  That thunders ,  lightens ,  opens graves ,  and roars As doth the lion in the Capitol ,  A man no mightier than thyself or me In personal action ,  yet prodigious grown And fearful ,  as these strange eruptions are . 	now I could ,  Casca ,  Name a man to you that is most like this dreadful night ,  One that thunders ,  send lightening ,  opens graves ,  and roars ,  As the lion in the Capitol does; A man no mightier in personal action; Than you or I ,  yet he’s grown monstrous ,  And fearful ,  just as these strange eruptions are . 
tis Caesar that you mean ,  is it not ,  Cassius ? 	It’s Caesar that you mean ,  isn’t it ,  Cassius ? 
our fathers' minds are dead ,  And we are govern'd with our mothers' spirits; Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish . 	our fathers' minds are dead ,  And we are governed by our mothers' spirits; Our burden and suffering makes us look womanish . 
Indeed they say the senators tomorrow Mean to establish Caesar as a king ,  And he shall wear his crown by sea and land ,  In every place save here in Italy . 	Indeed they say that the senators Mean to establish Caesar as a king tomorrow , And that he will be king everywhere ,  In every place ,  except here in Italy . 
therein ,  ye gods ,  you make the weak most strong; Therein ,  ye gods ,  you tyrants do defeat . 	In that event ,  you gods ,  you make the weak the strongest; In that event ,  you gods ,  you defeat tyrants . 
nor stony tower ,  nor walls of beaten brass ,  Nor airless dungeon ,  nor strong links of iron ,  Can be retentive to the strength of spirit; But life ,  being weary of these worldly bars ,  Never lacks power to dismiss itself . 	no stony tower ,  no walls of beaten brass ,  No airless dungeon ,  no strong chains of iron Can hold the strength of the spirit; But life ,  tired of these worldly bars ,  Never lacks the power to kill itself . 
If I know this ,  know all the world besides ,  That part of tyranny that I do bear I can shake off at pleasure . 	If I know this ,  and know the whole world too ,  I can shake off at pleasure That part of tyranny that I endure . 
so can I . 	I can too . 
so every bondman in his own hand bears The power to cancel his captivity . 	and so every slave has in his own hand The power to cancel his captivity . 
and why should Caesar be a tyrant then ? 	and why should Caesar be a tyrant then ? 
poor man ! 	poor man ! 
I know he would not be a wolf But that he sees the Romans are but sheep . 	I know he wouldn’t be a wolf ,  But he sees that the Romans are nothing but sheep . 
he were no lion ,  were not Romans hinds . 	he wouldn’t be a lion if Romans weren’t female deer . 
those that with haste will make a mighty fire Begin it with weak straws . 	those that are in a hurry will make a mighty fire and Start it with flimsy straws . 
what trash is Rome ,  What rubbish and what offal ,  when it serves For the base matter to illuminate So vile a thing as Caesar ? 	what trash Rome is ,  What rubbish ,  and what garbage ,  when it serves As the fuel to start a fire that will throw light On so vile a thing as Caesar ! 
but ,  O grief ,  Where hast thou led me ? 	but ,  O grief ,  Where have you taken me ? 
I perhaps speak this Before a willing bondman; then I know My answer must be made . 	perhaps I say this Before a willing slave . 
hold ,  my hand . 	stay ,  take my hand . 
be factious for redress of all these griefs ,  And I will set this foot of mine as far As who goes farthest . 	be a rebel for revenge for all these problems ,  And I’ll support you as far As the man who goes the farthest . 
there's a bargain made . 	It’s a deal . 
now know you ,  Casca ,  I have moved already Some certain of the noblest - minded Romans To undergo with me an enterprise Of honorable - dangerous consequence; And I do know ,  by this they stay for me In Pompey's Porch . 	now you know ,  Casca ,  I have already persuaded Some certain of the noblest - minded Romans To join me in an undertaking Of honorable/dangerous consequence; And I know by this ,  they are waiting for me In Pompey's Porch . 
for now ,  this fearful night ,  There is no stir or walking in the streets ,  And the complexion of the element In favor's like the work we have in hand ,  Most bloody ,  fiery ,  and most terrible . 	for now ,  because of this fearful night ,  There’s no noise or walking in the streets ,  And the weather reflects The work we have at hand ,  Most bloody ,  fiery ,  and most terrible . 
stand close awhile ,  for here comes one in haste . 	stand next to me for a while ,  because someone is coming hastily . 
to find out you . 	to find you . 
who's that ? 	who's that ? 
metellus Cimber ? 	metellus Cimber ? 
no ,  it is Casca ,  one incorporate To our attempts . 	no ,  it is Casca ,  one who agrees With our attempts . 
am I not stay'd for ,  Cinna ? 	Isn’t someone waiting for me ,  Cinna ? 
I am glad on't . 	I’m glad about it . 
what a fearful night is this ! 	what a fearful night is this ! 
there's two or three of us have seen strange sights . 	there's two or three of us who have seen strange sights . 
am I not stay'd for ? 	Isn’t someone waiting for me ? 
tell me . 	tell me . 
yes ,  you are . 	yes ,  They are . 
o Cassius ,  if you could But win the noble Brutus to our party— Be you content . 	o Cassius ,  if you could only persuade The noble Brutus to join us— Don’t worry . 
all this done ,  Repair to Pompey's porch ,  where you shall find us . 	when you’ve done all that ,  Go to Pompey's Porch ,  where you shall find us . 
Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there ? 	are Decius Brutus and Trebonius there ? 
all but Metellus Cimber ,  and he's gone To seek you at your house . 	all but Metellus Cimber ,  and he's gone To your house to find you . 
well ,  I will hie And so bestow these papers as you bade me . 	well ,  I’ll get going And so deliver these papers as you asked me . 
three parts of him Is ours already ,  and the man entire Upon the next encounter yields him ours . 	three parts of him Are ours already ,  and ,  at our next meeting ,  The whole man will be ours . 
him and his worth and our great need of him You have right well conceited . 	you’ve judge his worth ,  and our great need of him ,  Very well . 
let us go ,  For it is after midnight ,  and ere day We will awake him and be sure of him . 	let’s go ,  Because it is after midnight ,  and ,  before day ,  We’ll wake him up ,  and be sure that he’s with us . 
awake ,  I say ! 	wake up ,  I say ! 
what ,  Lucius ! 	hey ,  Lucius ! 
call'd you ,  my lord ? 	you called ,  my lord ? 
get me a taper in my study ,  Lucius . 	light a candle in my study ,  Lucius . 
when it is lighted ,  come and call me here . 	when it is lit ,  come back and call me here . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will ,  my lord . 
It must be by his death ,  and ,  for my part ,  I know no personal cause to spurn at him ,  But for the general . 	he must die ,  and ,  for my part ,  I don’t know a personal cause to throw at him ,  But for the general complaints . 
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder And that craves wary walking . 	a bright day brings out the black ,  poison snake ,  And that means we must walk carefully . 
crown him ? 	crown him ? — that . 
that; And then ,  I grant ,  we put a sting in him That at his will he may do danger with . 	and then ,  I admit ,  he may do danger ,  at his will ,  with A sting that we put in him . 
the abuse of greatness is when it disjoins Remorse from power ,  and ,  to speak truth of Caesar ,  I have not known when his affections sway'd More than his reason . 	the abuse of greatness is when it disconnects Remorse from power ,  and ,  to speak truth about Caesar ,  I haven’t known a time when his emotions were swayed More than his reason . 
the taper burneth in your closet ,  sir . 	the candle burns in your bedroom ,  sir . 
searching the window for a flint I found This paper thus seal'd up ,  and I am sure It did not lie there when I went to bed . 	searching the window for a match ,  I found This paper sealed up like this ,  and I’m sure It wasn’t there when I went to bed . 
get you to bed again ,  it is not day . 	go back to bed; it isn’t day . 
Is not tomorrow ,  boy ,  the ides of March ? 	Isn’t tomorrow ,  boy ,  the Ides of March ? 
I know not ,  sir . 	I don’t know ,  sir . 
look in the calendar and bring me word . 	look at the calendar ,  and come back and tell me . 
I will ,  sir . 	I will ,  sir . 
the exhalations whizzing in the air Give so much light that I may read by them . 	the vapors ,  whizzing in the air Give off so much light that I can read by them . —  " Brutus ,  you sleep . 
brutus ,  thou sleep'st: awake and see thyself ! 	wake up and see yourself . 
shall Rome ,  &amp;c .  Speak ,  strike ,  redress !  ”   “ Brutus ,  thou sleep'st: awake !  ”  Such instigations have been often dropp'd Where I have took them up . 	wake up ! — "  Such instigations have often been dropped Where I have picked them up . 
shall Rome stand under one man's awe ? 	shall Rome stand under one man's awe ? 
what ,  Rome ? 	what ,  Rome ? 
my ancestors did from the streets of Rome The Tarquin drive ,  when he was call'd a king . 	my ancestors drove Tarquin from the streets of Rome When he was called a king . —  " Speak ,  strike ,  revenge ! 
speak ,  strike ,  redress !  ”  Am I entreated To speak and strike ? 	am I begged ,  then , To speak and strike ? 
o Rome ,  I make thee promise ,  If the redress will follow ,  thou receivest Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus ! 	o Rome ,  I promise you ,  If revenge follows ,  you will receive Everything you ask for at the hand of Brutus ! 
sir ,  March is wasted fifteen days . 	sir ,  it’s the fifteenth day of March . 
tis good . 	good . 
sir ,  'tis your brother Cassius at the door ,  Who doth desire to see you . 	sir ,  it’s your brother ,  Cassius ,  at the door ,  Who wants to see you . 
Is he alone ? 	Is he alone ? 
no ,  sir ,  there are moe with him . 	no ,  sir ,  there are more with him . 
do you know them ? 	do you know them ? 
no ,  sir ,  their hats are pluck'd about their ears ,  And half their faces buried in their cloaks ,  That by no means I may discover them By any mark of favor . 	no ,  sir ,  their hats are drawn over their ears ,  And half their faces are buried in their cloaks ,  So that I couldn’t tell from their clothes or faces Who any of them are . 
o Conspiracy ,  Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night ,  When evils are most free ? 	they’re the rebels . —O conspiracy ,  Shame on you for showing your dangerous eyes by night When evils are most free ? 
o ,  then ,  by day Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough To mask thy monstrous visage ? 	o ,  then ,  by day Where will you find a cavern dark enough To hide your monstrous face ? 
seek none ,  conspiracy; Hide it in smiles and affability; For if thou path ,  thy native semblance on ,  Not Erebus itself were dim enough To hide thee from prevention . 	don’t find any ,  conspiracy; Hide it in smiles and friendliness ,  Because ,  if you pass ,  your real face on ,  Not even the dark place between heaven and hell itself Is dim enough to hide you from being stopped . 
I think we are too bold upon your rest . 	I think we are too bold to interrupt your sleep . 
good morrow ,  Brutus ,  do we trouble you ? 	good morning ,  Brutus; are we troubling you ? 
know I these men that come along with you ? 	do I know these men that come along with you ? 
yes ,  every man of them ,  and no man here But honors you ,  and every one doth wish You had but that opinion of yourself Which every noble Roman bears of you . 	yes ,  every one of them ,  and every man here Respects you ,  and every one wishes You had that opinion of yourself Which every noble Roman has for you . 
this is Trebonius . 	this is Trebonius . 
he is welcome hither . 	he’s welcome here . 
this ,  Decius Brutus . 	this ,  Decius Brutus . 
he is welcome too . 	he’s welcome too . 
this ,  Casca; this ,  Cinna; and this ,  Metellus Cimber . 	this ,  Casca; this ,  Cinna ,  and this ,  Metellus Cimber . 
they are all welcome . 	they’re all welcome . — What worries are keeping you From sleeping ? 
shall I entreat a word ? 	may I have a word with you ? 
here lies the east . 	this direction is east . 
doth not the day break here ? 	doesn’t the day break here ? 
no . 	no . 
o ,  pardon ,  sir ,  it doth ,  and yon grey lines That fret the clouds are messengers of day . 	o ,  pardon ,  sir ,  it does ,  and the gray lines over there That adorn the clouds are the messengers of dawn . 
you shall confess that you are both deceived . 	you’ll see that you’re both wrong . 
here ,  as I point my sword ,  the sun arises ,  Which is a great way growing on the south ,  Weighing the youthful season of the year . 	here ,  where I point my sword ,  the Sun rises ,  Which is going a great way to the South ,  Bringing in spring . 
some two months hence up higher toward the north He first presents his fire ,  and the high east Stands as the Capitol ,  directly here . 	some two months away ,  up higher toward the North ,  He first shines ,  and the high East Stands ,  just as the Capitol ,  directly here . 
give me your hands all over ,  one by one . 	let’s shake hands all over again ,  one by one . 
and let us swear our resolution . 	and let’s swear our determination . 
no ,  not an oath . 	no ,  not an oath . 
If not the face of men ,  The sufferance of our souls ,  the time's abuse— If these be motives weak ,  break off betimes ,  And every man hence to his idle bed; So let high - sighted tyranny range on Till each man drop by lottery . 	If not the face of men ,  The suffering of our souls ,  the waste of time— If these motives are weak ,  let’s break it off now ,  And every man go away to his lazy rest ,  Let high - sighted tyranny range on Until each man drops by chance . 
but if these ,  As I am sure they do ,  bear fire enough To kindle cowards and to steel with valor The melting spirits of women ,  then ,  countrymen ,  What need we any spur but our own cause To prick us to redress ? 	but if these events ,  As I’m sure they do ,  bear fire enough To kindle cowards ,  and to harden The melting spirits of women with valor ,  then ,  countrymen ,  What do we need any other motivation except our own causeTo prod us to revenge ? 
what other bond Than secret Romans that have spoke the word And will not palter ? 	what other bonds Than secret Romans ,  that have spoken the word ,  And will not negotiate without honor ? 
and what other oath Than honesty to honesty engaged That this shall be or we will fall for it ? 	and what other oath Than honesty to honesty promised That this promise shall be ,  or we will die for it ? 
swear priests and cowards and men cautelous ,  Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear Such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise ,  Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits ,  To think that or our cause or our performance Did need an oath; when every drop of blood That every Roman bears ,  and nobly bears ,  Is guilty of a several bastardy If he do break the smallest particle Of any promise that hath pass'd from him . 	swear priests and cowards ,  and deceitful men ,  Old feeble dead bodies and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs; swear to bad causes that Such creatures as men doubt ,  but don’t stain The even goodness of our undertaking ,  or the unsuppressed character of our spirits ,  To think that our cause and our performance Need oaths ,  when every drop of blood That every Roman carries ,  and carries nobly ,  Is guilty of causing the birth of several bastards ,  If he breaks the smallest particle Of any promise that he has made . 
but what of Cicero ? 	but what about Cicero ? 
shall we sound him ? 	shall we check him out ? 
I think he will stand very strong with us . 	I think he’ll stand with us very strongly . 
let us not leave him out . 	let’s not leave him out . 
no ,  by no means . 	no ,  by no means . 
It shall be said his judgement ruled our hands; Our youths and wildness shall no whit appear ,  But all be buried in his gravity . 	It shall be said that his judgment ruled our hands; Our youths and wildness won’t appear at all ,  But all be buried in his seriousness . 
then leave him out . 	then leave him out . 
Indeed he is not fit . 	Indeed ,  he’s not fit . 
shall no man else be touch'd but only Caesar ? 	shall any other man be killed besides Caesar ? 
our course will seem too bloody ,  Caius Cassius ,  To cut the head off and then hack the limbs Like wrath in death and envy afterwards; For Antony is but a limb of Caesar . 	our plan will seem too bloody ,  Caius Cassius ,  To cut off the head ,  and then hack off the arms and legs ,  Like anger in death and jealousy afterwards ,  Because Antony is but a limb of Caesar . 
let us be sacrificers ,  but not butchers ,  Caius . 	let’s be sacrificers ,  but not butchers ,  Caius . 
we all stand up against the spirit of Caesar ,  And in the spirit of men there is no blood . 	we all stand up against the spirit of Caesar ,  And ,  in the spirit of men ,  there is no blood . 
o ,  that we then could come by Caesar's spirit ,  And not dismember Caesar ! 	o ,  that we could come by Caesar's spirit then And not dismember Caesar ! 
but ,  alas ,  Caesar must bleed for it ! 	but ,  alas ,  Caesar must bleed for it ! 
this shall make Our purpose necessary and not envious ,  Which so appearing to the common eyes ,  We shall be call'd purgers ,  not murderers . 	this shall label Our purpose as necessary and not jealous ,  Which appearing to be respectful to common eyes ,  We shall be called purgers ,  not murderers . 
and for Mark Antony ,  think not of him ,  For he can do no more than Caesar's arm When Caesar's head is off . 	and for Mark Antony ,  don’t think abut him ,  Because he can do no more than Caesar's arm can do When Caesar's head is cut off . 
yet I fear him ,  For in the ingrafted love he bears to Caesar— Alas ,  good Cassius ,  do not think of him . 	I still fear him ,  Because in the acquired love he bears to Caesar— Alas ,  good Cassius ,  don’t think of him . 
If he love Caesar ,  all that he can do Is to himself ,  take thought and die for Caesar . 	If he loves Caesar ,  all that he can do Is what he can do to himself — think and die for Caesar . 
and that were much he should ,  for he is given To sports ,  to wildness ,  and much company . 	and that’s as much he should do ,  because he’s given To sports ,  to wildness ,  and to having a lot of company . 
the clock hath stricken three . 	the clock has struck three . 
tis time to part . 	It’s time to leave . 
but it is doubtful yet Whether Caesar will come forth today or no ,  For he is superstitious grown of late ,  Quite from the main opinion he held once Of fantasy ,  of dreams and ceremonies . 	but it is still doubtful Whether Caesar will come out today or not ,  Because he’s grown superstitious lately ,  Quite a distance from the main opinion he once held About fantasy ,  dreams ,  and ceremonies . 
It may be these apparent prodigies ,  The unaccustom'd terror of this night ,  And the persuasion of his augurers May hold him from the Capitol today . 	It may be these apparent signs ,  The unaccustomed weather of this night ,  And persuasion of his men who tell the future May keep him from the Capitol today . 
never fear that . 	don’t be afraid of that . 
let me work; For I can give his humor the true bent ,  And I will bring him to the Capitol . 	I’ll work on this ,  Because I can give his state of mind true purpose ,  And I’ll bring him to the Capitol . 
nay ,  we will all of us be there to fetch him . 	no ,  we’ll all be there to go get him . 
by the eighth hour . 	by eight o’clock . 
Is that the uttermost ? 	Is that the latest ? 
be that the uttermost ,  and fail not then . 	let that be the latest ,  and be on time . 
caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard ,  Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey . 	caius Ligarius doesn’t like Caesar ,  Who berated him for speaking well of Pompey . 
I wonder none of you have thought of him . 	I wonder why none of you’ve thought about him . 
now ,  good Metellus ,  go along by him . 	now ,  good Metellus ,  go ask him . 
he loves me well ,  and I have given him reasons; Send him but hither ,  and I'll fashion him . 	he likes me very well ,  and I have given him cause to; Just send him here ,  and I'll train him . 
the morning comes upon's . 	the morning is coming . 
we'll leave you ,  Brutus ,  And ,  friends ,  disperse yourselves ,  but all remember What you have said and show yourselves true Romans . 	we'll leave you ,  Brutus;— And ,  friends ,  scatter yourselves ,  but all remember What you’ve said ,  and show yourselves to be true Romans . 
fast asleep ? 	lucius ! —Fast asleep ? 
enjoy the honey - heavy dew of slumber; Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies ,  Which busy care draws in the brains of men; Therefore thou sleep'st so sound . 	you haven’t got dreams or fantasies Which busy care draws in the brains of men . 
brutus ,  my lord ! 	brutus ,  my lord ! 
portia ,  what mean you ? 	portia ,  what are you doing ? 
wherefore rise you now ? 	why are you up now ? 
It is not for your health thus to commit Your weak condition to the raw cold morning . 	It isn’t healthy to expose Your weak condition to the raw - cold morning like this . 
nor for yours neither . 	not for you either . 
I urged you further; then you scratch'd your head ,  And too impatiently stamp'd with your foot . 	I asked you again ,  then you scratched your head ,  And stamped your foot very impatiently . 
yet I insisted ,  yet you answer'd not ,  But with an angry wafture of your hand Gave sign for me to leave you . 	still I insisted; still you didn’t answer ,  But ,  with an angry wave of your hand ,  You gave me a sign to leave you . 
so I did ,  Fearing to strengthen that impatience Which seem'd too much enkindled ,  and withal Hoping it was but an effect of humor ,  Which sometime hath his hour with every man . 	so I did ,  Fearing that I might make you more impatient When you seemed already fired up ,  and besides ,  I was hoping it was just a bad mood ,  Which sometimes hits every man . 
It will not let you eat ,  nor talk ,  nor sleep ,  And ,  could it work so much upon your shape As it hath much prevail'd on your condition ,  I should not know you ,  Brutus . 	It won’t let you eat ,  or talk ,  or sleep; And ,  if it could affect your face and body So much that it conquers your spirit ,  I shouldn’t know you ,  Brutus . 
dear my lord ,  Make me acquainted with your cause of grief . 	my dear lord ,  Please tell me the cause of your grief . 
I am not well in health ,  and that is all . 	I’m not feeling well ,  and that’s all . 
brutus is wise ,  and ,  were he not in health ,  He would embrace the means to come by it . 	brutus is wise ,  and ,  if he were not in good health ,  He would do something about it . 
why ,  so I do . 	why ,  I do . 
good Portia ,  go to bed . 	good Portia ,  go ahead to bed . 
what ,  is Brutus sick ,  And will he steal out of his wholesome bed To dare the vile contagion of the night And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air To add unto his sickness ? 	what ,  is Brutus sick ,  And will he steal out of his wholesome bed To challenge the evil diseases of the night ,  And tempt the thick and unclean air To add to his sickness ? 
no ,  my Brutus ,  You have some sick offense within your mind ,  Which by the right and virtue of my place I ought to know of; and ,  upon my knees ,  I charm you ,  by my once commended beauty ,  By all your vows of love and that great vow Which did incorporate and make us one ,  That you unfold to me ,  yourself ,  your half ,  Why you are heavy ,  and what men tonight Have had resort to you; for here have been Some six or seven ,  who did hide their faces Even from darkness . 	no ,  my Brutus; You’ve got some sick worry on your mind ,  Which ,  by the right and virtue of my place ,  I ought to know of ,  and ,  on my knees ,  I order you ,  by my once commended beauty ,  By all your vows of love ,  and that marriage vow Which joined us and made us one ,  That you tell me ,  yourself ,  your half of me ,  Why you’re so depressed ,  and what men Have come to you tonight ,  because there have been Some six or seven here ,  who hid their faces Even from darkness . 
kneel not ,  gentle Portia . 	don’t kneel ,  gentle Portia . 
I should not need ,  if you were gentle Brutus . 	I shouldn’t need to ,  if you were acting like gentle Brutus . 
within the bond of marriage ,  tell me ,  Brutus ,  Is it excepted I should know no secrets That appertain to you ? 	Inside the bond of marriage ,  tell me ,  Brutus ,  Is my knowing secrets that appertain to you An exception to our vows ? 
am I yourself But ,  as it were ,  in sort or limitation ,  To keep with you at meals ,  comfort your bed ,  And talk to you sometimes ? 	am I part of you But ,  as it were ,  in sort or limitation , — To keep you company at meals ,  sleep in your bed ,  And talk to you sometimes ? 
dwell I but in the suburbs Of your good pleasure ? 	do I only live outside Of your good pleasure ? 
If it be no more ,  Portia is Brutus' harlot ,  not his wife . 	If it’s no more than this ,  Then Portia is Brutus' whore ,  not his wife . 
you are my true and honorable wife ,  As dear to me as are the ruddy drops That visit my sad heart . 	you’re my true and honorable wife ,  As dear to me as are the red tears That visit my sad heart . 
If this were true ,  then should I know this secret . 	If this is true ,  then I should know this secret . 
I grant I am a woman ,  but withal A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife . 	I’ll grant you that I’m a woman ,  but I am ,  besides ,  A woman that Lord Brutus married . 
I grant I am a woman ,  but withal A woman well reputed ,  Cato's daughter . 	I’ll grant you that I’m a woman ,  but I am ,  besides ,  A woman of good reputation ,  Cato's daughter . 
think you I am no stronger than my sex ,  Being so father'd and so husbanded ? 	do you think that I’m no stronger than my sex ,  Being so fathered and so married ? 
tell me your counsels ,  I will not disclose em . 	tell me your secrets ,  I won’t reveal them . 
I have made strong proof of my constancy ,  Giving myself a voluntary wound Here in the thigh . 	I have given you strong proof of my constancy ,  Giving myself a voluntary wound Here in the thigh . 
can I bear that with patience And not my husband's secrets ? 	can I suffer that with patience But not my husband's secrets ? 
o ye gods ,  Render me worthy of this noble wife ! 	o you gods ,  Make me worthy of this noble wife ! 
hark ,  hark ,  one knocks . 	listen ,  listen ,  someone is knocking . 
portia ,  go in awhile ,  And by and by thy bosom shall partake The secrets of my heart . 	portia ,  go in awhile ,  And by and by ,  your heart shall hear The secrets of my heart . 
all my engagements I will construe to thee ,  All the charactery of my sad brows . 	I’ll tell you all about my meetings ,  All the reasons for my sad brows . 
leave me with haste . 	leave me quickly . 
lucius ,  who's that knocks ? 	lucius ,  who's knocking ? 
here is a sick man that would speak with you . 	here is a sick man that would speak with you . 
vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue . 	allow a good morning from a feeble tongue . 
I am not sick ,  if Brutus have in hand Any exploit worthy the name of honor . 	I’m not sick ,  if Brutus have any exploit Worthy of the name of honor in hand . 
such an exploit have I in hand ,  Ligarius ,  Had you a healthful ear to hear of it . 	I have such an exploit in hand ,  Ligarius ,  That you would hear if you weren’t sick . 
by all the gods that Romans bow before ,  I here discard my sickness ! 	by all the gods that Romans bow before ,  I here discard my sickness . 
soul of Rome ! 	soul of Rome ! 
brave son ,  derived from honorable loins ! 	brave son ,  fathered from honorable loins ! 
thou ,  like an exorcist ,  hast conjured up My mortified spirit . 	you ,  like an exorcist ,  have brought my dead Spirit back to life . 
now bid me run ,  And I will strive with things impossible ,  Yea ,  get the better of them . 	tell me to run now ,  And I’ll do impossible things ,  Yes ,  and get the better of them . 
what's to do ? 	what needs to be done ? 
a piece of work that will make sick men whole . 	a piece of work that will make sick men well again . 
but are not some whole that we must make sick ? 	but aren’t some well that we must make sick ? 
that must we also . 	that we must do that also . 
what it is ,  my Caius ,  I shall unfold to thee ,  as we are going To whom it must be done . 	what it is ,  my Caius ,  I’ll tell you ,  as we are walking ,  As to whom it must be done . 
set on your foot ,  And with a heart new - fired I follow you ,  To do I know not what; but it sufficeth That Brutus leads me on . 	start walking ,  And I’ll follow you with a new ,  fired up heart ,  To do I don’t know what ,  but it’s enough That Brutus leads me on . 
follow me then . 	follow me then . 
nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight . 	neither heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight . 
thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out ,   “ Help ,  ho ! 	three times Calpurnia has cried out in her sleep ,   " Help ,  oh ! 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
go bid the priests do present sacrifice ,  And bring me their opinions of success . 	go tell the priests to do the sacrifice now ,  And bring me their opinions of success . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will ,  my lord . 
what mean you ,  Caesar ? 	what do you mean ,  Caesar ? 
think you to walk forth ? 	do you intend to walk outside ? 
you shall not stir out of your house today . 	you shall not go out of your house today . 
caesar ,  I never stood on ceremonies ,  Yet now they fright me . 	caesar ,  I never believed in omens ,  Yet now they frighten me . 
there is one within ,  Besides the things that we have heard and seen ,  Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch . 	besides the things that We have heard and seen ,  there is a man inside Recounting the most horrid sights seen by the guards . 
a lioness hath whelped in the streets; And graves have yawn'd ,  and yielded up their dead; Fierce fiery warriors fight upon the clouds ,  In ranks and squadrons and right form of war ,  Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol; The noise of battle hurtled in the air ,  Horses did neigh and dying men did groan ,  And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets . 	a lioness has given birth in the streets; And graves have opened up and given up their dead; Fierce fiery warriors fight on the clouds ,  In ranks and squadrons and right forms of war ,  Which drizzled blood on the Capitol; The noise of battle screaming into the air ,  Horses neighed ,  and dying men groaned;And ghosts shrieked and squealed around the streets . 
what can be avoided Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods ? 	what we avoid When the mighty gods dictate how things go ? 
yet Caesar shall go forth ,  for these predictions Are to the world in general as to Caesar . 	still ,  Caesar shall go out ,  because these predictions Are not only for Caesar but also for the world in general . 
cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once . 	cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant only taste of death once . 
they would not have you to stir forth today . 	they say not to go out today . 
plucking the entrails of an offering forth ,  They could not find a heart within the beast . 	looking at the guts of an offering ,  They couldn’t find a heart inside the beast . 
the gods do this in shame of cowardice . 	the gods do this in shame of cowardice . 
caesar should be a beast without a heart If he should stay at home today for fear . 	caesar should be a beast without a heart ,  If he stays at home today because he’s afraid . 
no ,  Caesar shall not . 	no ,  Caesar shall not . 
danger knows full well That Caesar is more dangerous than he . 	danger knows full well That Caesar is more dangerous than he . 
alas ,  my lord ,  Your wisdom is consumed in confidence . 	alas ,  my lord ,  Your wisdom is consumed in confidence ! 
do not go forth today . 	don’t go out today . 
let me ,  upon my knee ,  prevail in this . 	let me ,  on my knee ,  win this argument . 
mark Antony shall say I am not well ,  And ,  for thy humor ,  I will stay at home . 	mark Antony shall say I’m not well ,  And ,  to make you happy ,  I’ll stay home . 
here's Decius Brutus ,  he shall tell them so . 	here's Decius Brutus ,  he shall tell them so . 
caesar ,  all hail ! 	caesar ,  all hail ! 
good morrow ,  worthy Caesar ! 	good morning ,  worthy Caesar . 
I come to fetch you to the Senate - house . 	I come to go get you to the Senate - house . 
and you are come in very happy time ,  To bear my greeting to the senators And tell them that I will not come today . 	and you’ve come at a very happy time To bear my greeting to the Senators ,  And tell them that I can’t come today . 
tell them so ,  Decius . 	tell them so ,  Decius . 
say he is sick . 	say he’s sick . 
shall Caesar send a lie ? 	shall Caesar send a lie ? 
most mighty Caesar ,  let me know some cause ,  Lest I be laugh'd at when I tell them so . 	most mighty Caesar ,  let me know some reason ,  In case I’m laughed at when I tell them so . 
but ,  for your private satisfaction ,  Because I love you ,  I will let you know . 	but ,  for your private satisfaction ,  Because I love you ,  I’ll let you know . 
and these does she apply for warnings and portents And evils imminent ,  and on her knee Hath begg'd that I will stay at home today . 	and these she interprets for warnings and portents And imminent evil ,  and on her knee ,  Has begged me to stay home today . 
your statue spouting blood in many pipes ,  90 In which so many smiling Romans bathed ,  Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck Reviving blood ,  and that great men shall press For tinctures ,  stains ,  relics ,  and cognizance . 	your statue spouting blood in many pipes ,  In which so many smiling Romans bathed ,  Signifies that ,  from you ,  great Rome shall suck Reviving blood ,  and that great men shall ask For tinctures ,  stains ,  relics ,  and recognition . 
this by Calpurnia's dream is signified . 	this is what Calpurnia’s dream means . 
and this way have you well expounded it . 	and in this way ,  you have explained it very well . 
I have ,  when you have heard what I can say . 	I have ,  when you’ve heard what I can say And you know it now . 
and know it now ,  the Senate have concluded To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar . 	the Senate has concluded To give a crown to mighty Caesar this day . 
If you shall send them word you will not come ,  Their minds may change . 	If you send them word you’ll not come ,  They may change their minds . 
besides ,  it were a mock Apt to be render'd ,  for some one to say  “ Break up the Senate till another time ,  When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams .  ”  If Caesar hide himself ,  shall they not whisper  “ Lo ,  Caesar is afraid ”  ? 	besides ,  it’s might be Interpreted as silly ,  because someone says  " Break up the Senate until another time ,  When Caesar's wife shall have better dreams . 
pardon me ,  Caesar ,  for my dear dear love To your proceeding bids me tell you this ,  And reason to my love is liable . 	pardon me ,  Caesar; because my dear ,  dear love To your advancement bids me tell you this; And reason is responsible to my love . 
how foolish do your fears seem now ,  Calpurnia ! 	how foolish your fears seem now ,  Calpurnia ! 
I am ashamed I did yield to them . 	I’m ashamed that I gave in to them . 
give me my robe ,  for I will go . 	give me my robe ,  because I’ll go . 
and look where Publius is come to fetch me . 	and look where Publius is coming to go get me . 
good morrow ,  Caesar . 	good morning ,  Caesar . 
caesar ,  'tis strucken eight . 	caesar ,  it’s eight o'clock . 
I thank you for your pains and courtesy . 	I thank you for your pains and courtesy . 
bid them prepare within . 	ask them prepare inside . 
I am to blame to be thus waited for . 	I’m to blame to be waited for like this . — Now ,  Cinna;—now ,  Metellus;—what ,  Trebonius ! 
now ,  Cinna; now ,  Metellus; what ,  Trebonius ,  I have an hour's talk in store for you; Remember that you call on me today; Be near me ,  that I may remember you . 	remember that you call on me today; Be near me so that I may remember you . 
caesar ,  I will . 	caesar ,  I will . 
and so near will I be That your best friends shall wish I had been further . 	and so near will I be ,  That your best friends shall wish I had been further away . 
good friends ,  go in and taste some wine with me ,  And we like friends will straightway go together . 	good friends ,  go in ,  and taste some wine with me; And we ,  like friends ,  will go ahead together straightaway . 
that every like is not the same ,  O Caesar ,  The heart of Brutus yearns to think upon ! 	that every  “ like ”  isn’t the same ,  O Caesar ,  That the heart of Brutus yearns to think about ! 
caesar ,  beware of Brutus; take heed of Cassius; come not near Casca; have an eye to Cinna; trust not Trebonius; mark it well Metellus Cimber; Decius Brutus loves thee not; thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius . 	caesar ,  beware of Brutus; be careful of Cassius; don’t come near Casca; watch Cinna; don’t trust Trebonius; pay attention to Metellus Cimber; Decius Brutus doesn’t love you; you’ve sinned against Caius Ligarius . 
there is but one mind in all these men ,  and it is bent against Caesar . 	there is only one mind in all these men ,  and it is bent against Caesar . 
If thou beest not immortal ,  look about you . 	If you’re not immortal ,  look around you . 
security gives way to conspiracy . 	security gives way to conspiracy . 
the mighty gods defend thee ! 	the mighty gods defend you ! 
I prithee ,  boy ,  run to the Senate - house; Stay not to answer me ,  but get thee gone . 	boy ,  run to the Senate - house; Don’t wait to answer me ,  but get going . 
why dost thou stay ? 	what are you waiting for ? 
to know my errand ,  madam . 	to know what my errand is ,  madam . 
set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue ! 	set a huge mountain between my heart and tongue ! 
I have a man's mind ,  but a woman's might . 	I have a man's mind ,  but a woman's might . 
madam ,  what should I do ? 	madam ,  what should I do ? 
run to the Capitol ,  and nothing else ? 	run to the Capitol ,  and nothing else ? 
and so return to you ,  and nothing else ? 	and so return to you ,  and nothing else ? 
I hear none ,  madam . 	I didn’t hear anything ,  madam . 
prithee ,  listen well . 	please ,  listen well . 
I heard a bustling rumor like a fray ,  And the wind brings it from the Capitol . 	I heard a bustling rumor ,  like a riot ,  And the wind brings it from the Capitol . 
sooth ,  madam ,  I hear nothing . 	really ,  madam ,  I hear nothing . 
at mine own house ,  good lady . 	at mine own house ,  good lady . 
what is't o'clock ? 	what time is it ? 
about the ninth hour ,  lady . 	almost nine o’clock ,  lady . 
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol ? 	has Caesar gone to the Capitol ? 
madam ,  not yet . 	madam ,  not yet . 
I go to take my stand To see him pass on to the Capitol . 	I’m going ahead to get my spot To see him pass on his way to the Capitol . 
thou hast some suit to Caesar ,  hast thou not ? 	you’ve got some petition to Caesar ,  haven’t you ? 
that I have ,  lady . 	that I have ,  lady . 
If it will please Caesar To be so good to Caesar as to hear me ,  I shall beseech him to befriend himself . 	If it will please Caesar To be so good to Caesar as to hear what I have to say ,  I shall beg him to take care of himself . 
why ,  know'st thou any harm's intended towards him ? 	why ,  do you know if any harm's intended towards him ? 
none that I know will be ,  much that I fear may chance . 	none that I know definitely ,  but I’m very afraid there’s a chance . 
good morrow to you . 	good morning to you . —Here the street is narrow . 
here the street is narrow ,  The throng that follows Caesar at the heels ,  Of senators ,  of praetors ,  common suitors ,  Will crowd a feeble man almost to death . 	the throng that follows Caesar at his heels ,  Of Senators ,  of Praetors ,  common suitors ,  Will crowd a feeble man almost to death . 
I'll get me to a place more void and there Speak to great Caesar as he comes along . 	I'll get me to a place with more space ,  and there Speak to great Caesar as he comes along . 
come to me again ,  And bring me word what he doth say to thee . 	come back to me again ,  And bring me word about what he says to you . 
the ides of March are come . 	the Ides of March are here . 
ay ,  Caesar ,  but not gone . 	yes ,  Caesar ,  but not gone . 
hail ,  Caesar ! 	hail ,  Caesar ! 
read this schedule . 	read this petition . 
trebonius doth desire you to o'er read ,  At your best leisure ,  this his humble suit . 	trebonius wants you to read this Humble suit at your leisure . 
o Caesar ,  read mine first ,  for mine's a suit That touches Caesar nearer . 	o Caesar ,  read mine first ,  because mine's a suit That touches Caesar nearer . 
read it ,  great Caesar . 	read it ,  great Caesar . 
what touches us ourself shall be last served . 	what concerns ourselves shall be the last thing considered . 
delay not ,  Caesar; read it instantly . 	don’t delay ,  Caesar; read it instantly . 
what ,  is the fellow mad ? 	what ,  is the fellow mad ? 
sirrah ,  give place . 	servant ,  get away . 
what ,  urge you your petitions in the street ? 	what ,  do you present your petitions in the street ? 
come to the Capitol . 	come to the Capitol . 
I wish your enterprise today may thrive . 	I wish your undertaking today may thrive . 
what enterprise ,  Popilius ? 	what undertaking ,  Popilius ? 
fare you well . 	goodbye . 
what said Popilius Lena ? 	what did Popilius Lena say ? 
he wish'd today our enterprise might thrive . 	he wished that our undertaking today might thrive . 
I fear our purpose is discovered . 	I’m afraid our plan has been discovered . 
look ,  how he makes to Caesar . 	look ,  how he gets Caesar’s attention . 
mark him . 	watch him . 
If this be known ,  Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back ,  For I will slay myself . 	If this is known ,  Cassius or Caesar shall never turn back ,  Because I’ll kill myself . 
cassius ,  be constant . 	cassius ,  stop worrying . 
popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes; For ,  look ,  he smiles ,  and Caesar doth not change . 	popilius Lena doesn’t speak about our plan ,  Because ,  look ,  he smiles ,  and Caesar doesn’t notice anything . 
trebonius knows his time ,  for ,  look you ,  Brutus ,  He draws Mark Antony out of the way . 	trebonius when to act ,  because ,  look ,  Brutus ,  He’s taking Mark Antony out of the way . 
where is Metellus Cimber ? 	where is Metellus Cimber ? 
let him go ,  And presently prefer his suit to Caesar . 	let him come ,  And now tell Caesar what it is that he wants . 
he is address'd; press near and second him . 	he’s ready; get closer and back him up . 
casca ,  you are the first that rears your hand . 	casca ,  you’re the first one to strike . 
are we all ready ? 	are we All ready ? 
what is now amiss That Caesar and his Senate must redress ? 	what’s the problem That Caesar and his Senate must fix ? 
most high ,  most mighty ,  and most puissant Caesar ,  Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat An humble heart . 	most high ,  most mighty ,  and most powerful Caesar ,  Metellus Cimber falls before you Most humbly . 
I must prevent thee ,  Cimber . 	I must stop you ,  Cimber . 
these couchings and these lowly courtesies Might fire the blood of ordinary men And turn preordinance and first decree Into the law of children . 	these lying down and these lowly courtesies Might move ordinary men ,  And turn previous laws and the first decree Into the laws of children . 
be not fond To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood That will be thaw'd from the true quality With that which melteth fools ,  I mean sweet words ,  Low - crooked court'sies ,  and base spaniel - fawning . 	don’t be so silly as To think that Caesar has such rebel blood That will be changed by The same things that change fools; I mean ,  sweet words ,  Low ,  crooked curtsies ,  and playing up to me like a puppy . 
thy brother by decree is banished . 	your brother is banished by decree . 
If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him ,  I spurn thee like a cur out of my way . 	If you do bend ,  and pray ,  and play up to me for him ,  I reject you out of my way like a stray dog . 
know ,  Caesar doth not wrong ,  nor without cause Will he be satisfied . 	caesar has never been wrong ,  only with good reason ,  And he will not be satisfied without good reason . 
Is there no voice more worthy than my own ,  To sound more sweetly in great Caesar's ear For the repealing of my banish'd brother ? 	Is there any voice more worthy than mine To speak more sweetly into great Caesar's ear To ask for a repeal of my banished brother’s sentence ? 
what ,  Brutus ? 	what ,  Brutus ? 
as low as to thy foot doth Cassius fall To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber . 	cassius falls as low as your foot ,  To beg freedom for Publius Cimber . 
speak ,  hands ,  for me ! 	speak ,  hands ,  for me ! 
then fall ,  Caesar ! 	you too ,  Brutus ? — Then fall ,  Caesar ! 
liberty ! 	liberty ! 
freedom ! 	freedom ! 
go to the pulpit ,  Brutus . 	go ahead to the square ,  Brutus . 
and Cassius too . 	and Cassius too . 
where's Publius ? 	where's Publius ? 
here ,  quite confounded with this mutiny . 	here ,  quite confused by this mutiny . 
stand fast together ,  lest some friend of Caesar's Should chance— Talk not of standing . 	stand together solidly ,  for fear that some friend of Caesar's Should happen — Don’t talk about standing . —Publius ,  good cheer ! 
publius ,  good cheer ,  There is no harm intended to your person ,  Nor to no Roman else . 	we don’t intend to harm you ,  Or any other Roman . 
so tell them ,  Publius . 	tell them so ,  Publius . 
and leave us ,  Publius ,  lest that the people Rushing on us should do your age some mischief . 	and leave us ,  Publius for fear that the people Will attack us ,  doing some mischief to your old body . 
do so ,  and let no man abide this deed But we the doers . 	do so;— and let no man pay for this deed But we who did it . 
where is Antony ? 	where's Antony ? 
fled to his house amazed . 	fled to his house amazed . 
men ,  wives ,  and children stare ,  cry out ,  and run As it were doomsday . 	men ,  wives ,  and children stare ,  cry out ,  and run ,  As it were doomsday . 
fates ,  we will know your pleasures . 	destiny ,  tell us what comes next . 
that we shall die ,  we know; 'tis but the time And drawing days out that men stand upon . 	we know we shall die ,  we know; it’s only time And drawing days out that men live on . 
why ,  he that cuts off twenty years of life Cuts off so many years of fearing death . 	why ,  he that spends twenty years fearing death Cuts twenty years off his life . 
grant that ,  and then is death a benefit; So are we Caesar's friends that have abridged His time of fearing death . 	I agree ,  and then is death a benefit . 
how many times shall Caesar bleed in sport ,  That now on Pompey's basis lies along No worthier than the dust ! 	how many times will Caesar bleed in amusement ,  That lies now next to Pompey's statue ,  No worthier than the dust ! 
so oft as that shall be ,  So often shall the knot of us be call'd The men that gave their country liberty . 	so often as that shall be ,  So often shall the group of us be called The men that gave their country liberty . 
what ,  shall we forth ? 	what ,  shall we go ? 
ay ,  every man away . 	yes ,  every man away . 
brutus shall lead ,  and we will grace his heels With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome . 	brutus shall lead ,  and we will follow him With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome . 
soft ,  who comes here ? 	wait ,  who’s coming here ? 
a friend of Antony's . 	a friend of Antony's . 
If Brutus will vouchsafe that Antony May safely come to him and be resolved How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death ,  Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead So well as Brutus living ,  but will follow The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus Thorough the hazards of this untrod state With all true faith . 	If Brutus will guarantee that Antony May safely come to him and is ready to tell How Caesar deserved to die ,  Mark Antony shall love Brutus living Better than Caesar dead ,  and will follow The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus with all true faith Thorough the hazards of this unconquered state . 
so says my master Antony . 	that is what my master Antony says . 
thy master is a wise and valiant Roman; I never thought him worse . 	your master is a wise and valiant Roman; I always thought so . 
tell him ,  so please him come unto this place ,  He shall be satisfied and ,  by my honor ,  Depart untouch'd . 	tell him ,  if it pleases him come to this place ,  He shall get an explanation and ,  by my honor ,  Leave here safely . 
I'll fetch him presently . 	I'll go get him now . 
I know that we shall have him well to friend . 	I know that we shall have him as a friend . 
I wish we may ,  but yet have I a mind That fears him much ,  and my misgiving still Falls shrewdly to the purpose . 	I hope that we may ,  but my heart is still Very much afraid of him ,  and my gut feeling is that He cannot be trusted . 
o mighty Caesar ! 	o mighty Caesar ! 
dost thou lie so low ? 	do you lie so low ? 
are all thy conquests ,  glories ,  triumphs ,  spoils ,  Shrunk to this little measure ? 	do all your conquests ,  glories ,  triumphs ,  spoils ,  Boil down to this ? 
If I myself ,  there is no hour so fit As Caesar's death's hour ,  nor no instrument Of half that worth as those your swords ,  made rich With the most noble blood of all this world . 	If I’m going be killed ,  there is no time like Caesar's death - hour ,  or any instrument Half as worthy as your swords ,  decorated richly With the most noble blood in this whole world . 
I do beseech ye ,  if you bear me hard ,  Now ,  whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke ,  Fulfill your pleasure . 	please ,  if you hate me ,  kill me now While your purpled hands smeared with fresh blood . 
o Antony ,  beg not your death of us ! 	o Antony ,  don’t beg your death from us ! 
though now we must appear bloody and cruel ,  As ,  by our hands and this our present act ,  You see we do ,  yet see you but our hands And this the bleeding business they have done . 	although we must appear bloody and cruel now ,  As you can see by our hands and this recent deed; Still you can only see our hands And this bleeding business they have done . 
our hearts you see not; they are pitiful; And pity to the general wrong of Rome— As fire drives out fire ,  so pity pity— Hath done this deed on Caesar . 	you don’t see our hearts; they’re full of pity; Pity the general injury of Rome — As fire drives out fire ,  so pity drives out pity — Has done this deed on Caesar . 
for your part ,  To you our swords have leaden points ,  Mark Antony; Our arms in strength of malice ,  and our hearts Of brothers' temper ,  do receive you in With all kind love ,  good thoughts ,  and reverence . 	for your part ,  Our swords have leaden points to you ,  Mark Antony; Our arms in strength of friendship ,  and our hearts Of brotherly disposition ,  receive you With all kind love ,  good thoughts ,  and reverence . 
your voice shall be as strong as any man's In the disposing of new dignities . 	your voice shall be as strong as any man's In giving out the new honorable offices . 
only be patient till we have appeased The multitude ,  beside themselves with fear ,  And then we will deliver you the cause Why I ,  that did love Caesar when I struck him ,  Have thus proceeded . 	only be patient until we have pacified The multitude ,  who are beside themselves with fear ,  And then we will tell you the reason Why I ,  that loved Caesar when I struck him ,  Have acted this way . 
I doubt not of your wisdom . 	I don’t doubt your wisdom . 
let each man render me his bloody hand . 	let each man give me his bloody hand . 
first ,  Marcus Brutus ,  will I shake with you; Next ,  Caius Cassius ,  do I take your hand; Now ,  Decius Brutus ,  yours; now yours ,  Metellus; Yours ,  Cinna; and ,  my valiant Casca ,  yours; Though last ,  not least in love ,  yours ,  good Trebonius . 	first ,  Marcus Brutus ,  I will shake with you;— Next ,  Caius Cassius ,  I take your hand;— Now ,  Decius Brutus ,  yours;—now yours ,  Metellus;— Yours ,  Cinna;—and ,  my valiant Casca ,  yours;— Though last ,  not least in love ,  yours ,  good Trebonius . 
gentlemen all , —alas ,  what shall I say ? 	gentlemen all—alas ,  what shall I say ? 
had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds ,  Weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood ,  It would become me better than to close In terms of friendship with thine enemies . 	If I had as many eyes as you’ve got wounds ,  Weeping as fast as they let your blood out ,  It would suit me better than to close In terms of friendship with your enemies . 
pardon me ,  Julius ! 	pardon me ,  Julius ! 
mark Antony , — Pardon me ,  Caius Cassius . 	mark Antony , — Pardon me ,  Caius Cassius . 
the enemies of Caesar shall say this: Then ,  in a friend ,  it is cold modesty . 	the enemies of Caesar shall say all this; Then ,  in a friend ,  it is cold shame . 
I blame you not for praising Caesar so; But what compact mean you to have with us ? 	I don’t blame you for praising Caesar so; But what agreement do mean you to have with us ? 
will you be prick'd in number of our friends ,  Or shall we on ,  and not depend on you ? 	will you be counted in the number of our friends ,  Or shall we go on and not depend on you ? 
therefore I took your hands ,  but was indeed Sway'd from the point by looking down on Caesar . 	I shook your hands for that reason; but I was really Distracted from the point by looking down on Caesar . 
friends am I with you all and love you all ,  Upon this hope that you shall give me reasons Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous . 	I am friends with you all ,  and love you all ,  On this hope ,  that you shall give me reasons Why and how Caesar was dangerous . 
or else were this a savage spectacle . 	or else this was a savage spectacle . 
our reasons are so full of good regard That were you ,  Antony ,  the son of Caesar ,  You should be satisfied . 	our reasons are so full of good regard That were you ,  Antony ,  the son of Caesar ,  You should be satisfied . 
you shall ,  Mark Antony . 	you shall do it ,  Mark Antony . 
brutus ,  a word with you . 	brutus ,  a word with you . 
by your pardon ,  I will myself into the pulpit first ,  And show the reason of our Caesar's death . 	I’ll go onto the platform first ,  And explain our Caesar's death . 
what Antony shall speak ,  I will protest He speaks by leave and by permission ,  And that we are contented Caesar shall Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies . 	whatever Antony shall speak ,  I’ll formerly declare That he speaks with our permission And that we are happy that Caesar shall Have all true rights and lawful ceremonies . 
It shall advantage more than do us wrong . 	It’ll be to our advantage more than doing us harm . 
I know not what may fall; I like it not . 	I don’t know what may happen; I don’t like it . 
mark Antony ,  here ,  take you Caesar's body . 	mark Antony ,  here ,  take Caesar's body . 
you shall not in your funeral speech blame us ,  But speak all good you can devise of Caesar ,  And say you do't by our permission ,  Else shall you not have any hand at all About his funeral . 	you shall not blame us in your funeral speech ,  But speak all the good that you can imagine about Caesar; And say you do it by our permission; Or else you won’t have any part at all In his funeral . 
and you shall speak In the same pulpit whereto I am going ,  After my speech is ended . 	and you shall speak After my speech is ended On the same platform where I’m going to be . 
be it so ,  I do desire no more . 	I don’t desire any more . 
prepare the body then ,  and follow us . 	prepare the body ,  then ,  and follow us . 
o ,  pardon me ,  thou bleeding piece of earth ,  That I am meek and gentle with these butchers ! 	o ,  forgive me ,  you bleeding piece of earth ,  That I’m meek and gentle with these butchers ! 
thou art the ruins of the noblest man That ever lived in the tide of times . 	you’re the ruins of the noblest man That ever lived in the tide of times . 
woe to the hand that shed this costly blood ! 	woe to the hand that shed this costly blood ! 
I do ,  Mark Antony . 	I do ,  Mark Antony . 
caesar did write for him to come to Rome . 	caesar wrote for him to come to Rome . 
passion ,  I see ,  is catching ,  for mine eyes ,  Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine ,  Began to water . 	passion ,  I see ,  is catching; for my eyes ,  Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in yours ,  Began to tear . 
Is thy master coming ? 	Is your master coming ? 
he lies tonight within seven leagues of Rome . 	he lies tonight within twenty - one miles of Rome . 
post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced . 	get back to him quickly speed ,  and tell him what has happened . 
here is a mourning Rome ,  a dangerous Rome ,  No Rome of safety for Octavius yet; Hie hence ,  and tell him so . 	here is a mourning Rome ,  a dangerous Rome ,  A Rome not safe for Octavius yet; Get going ,  and tell him so . 
yet stay awhile ,  Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse Into the market - place . 	stay here for a bit; You shall not go back until I have carried this corpse Into the market place . 
there shall I try ,  In my oration ,  how the people take The cruel issue of these bloody men ,  According to the which thou shalt discourse To young Octavius of the state of things . 	there I shall test ,  In my speech ,  how the people takeThe cruel actions of these bloody men; Once I know that ,  you shall tell Young Octavius the state of things . 
lend me your hand . 	lend me your hand . 
I will hear Brutus speak . 	I’ll hear Brutus speak . 
I will hear Cassius and compare their reasons ,  When severally we hear them rendered . 	I’ll hear Cassius ,  and compare their reasons ,  Once they have all been told . 
the noble Brutus is ascended . 	the noble Brutus is on the platform . 
silence ! 	silence ! 
be patient till the last . 	please wait until I finish . 
romans ,  countrymen ,  and lovers ! 	romans ,  countrymen ,  and friends ! 
hear me for my cause ,  and be silent ,  that you may hear . 	listen to my cause ,  and be silent ,  so you can hear . 
believe me for mine honor ,  and have respect to mine honor ,  that you may believe . 	believe me based on my honor ,  and have respect for my honor ,  so you can believe . 
censure me in your wisdom ,  and awake your senses ,  that you may the better judge . 	judge me in your wisdom ,  and wake up your senses ,  so you can be a better judge . 
If there be any in this assembly ,  any dear friend of Caesar's ,  to him I say that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his . 	If there is anyone in this assembly ,  any dear friend of Caesar's ,  to him I say that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his love . 
If then that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar ,  this is my answer: Not that I loved Caesar less ,  but that I loved Rome more . 	If then that friend demands why Brutus rose against Caesar ,  this is my answer , —Not that I loved Caesar less ,  but that I loved Rome more . 
had you rather Caesar were living and die all slaves ,  than that Caesar were dead to live all freemen ? 	would you rather Caesar were living ,  and you all die slaves ,  than that Caesar were dead ,  so you all live freemen ? 
as Caesar loved me ,  I weep for him; as he was fortunate ,  I rejoice at it; as he was valiant ,  I honor him; but as he was ambitious ,  I slew him . 	as Caesar loved me ,  I weep for him; as he was fortunate ,  I rejoice at it; as he was valiant ,  I honor him; but ,  as he was ambitious ,  I killed him . 
there is tears for his love ,  joy for his fortune ,  honor for his valor ,  and death for his ambition . 	there are tears for his love; joy for his fortune; honor for his valor ,  and death for his ambition . 
who is here so base that would be a bondman ? 	who is here so low thatthey would rather be a slave ? 
If any ,  speak ,  for him have I offended . 	If there are any ,  speak ,  because I have offended him . 
who is here so rude that would not be a Roman ? 	who here is so rude that they wouldn’t be a Roman ? 
If any ,  speak ,  for him have I offended . 	If there are any ,  speak ,  because I have offended him . 
who is here so vile that will not love his country ? 	who is here so vile that he will not love his country ? 
If any ,  speak ,  for him have I offended . 	If there are any ,  speak ,  because I offended him . 
I pause for a reply . 	I’ll stop so you can reply . 
none ,  Brutus ,  none . 	none ,  Brutus ,  none . 
then none have I offended . 	then I have offended none . 
I have done no more to Caesar than you shall do to Brutus . 	I have done no more to Caesar than you shall do to Brutus . 
the question of his death is enrolled in the Capitol ,  his glory not extenuated ,  wherein he was worthy ,  nor his offenses enforced ,  for which he suffered death . 	the question of his death is recorded on rolls in the Capitol ,  his glory not made thin ,  where he was worthy; nor are his offenses recorded ,  for which he suffered death . 
here comes his body ,  mourned by Mark Antony ,  who ,  though he had no hand in his death ,  shall receive the benefit of his dying ,  a place in the commonwealth ,  as which of you shall not ? 	here comes his body ,  mourned by Mark Antony ,  who ,  although he had no hand in his death ,  shall receive the benefit of his dying ,  a place in the commonwealth ,  just as you all will . 
with this I depart—that ,  as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome ,  I have the same dagger for myself ,  when it shall please my country to need my death . 	with this ,  I leave — that ,  as I killed my best friend for the good of Rome ,  I have the same dagger for myself ,  to be used when it shall please my country to need my death . 
bring him with triumph home unto his house . 	bring him home with triumph to his house . 
give him a statue with his ancestors . 	give him a statue with his ancestors . 
let him be Caesar . 	let him be Caesar . 
caesar's better parts Shall be crown'd in Brutus . 	caesar's better parts Shall be crowned in Brutus . 
we'll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors . 	we'll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors . 
my countrymen— Peace ! 	my countrymen , — Peace ! 
silence ! 	silence ! 
brutus speaks . 	brutus speaks . 
peace ,  ho ! 	peace ,  oh ! 
good countrymen ,  let me depart alone ,  And ,  for my sake ,  stay here with Antony . 	good countrymen ,  let me leave alone ,  And ,  for my sake ,  stay here with Antony . 
do grace to Caesar's corse ,  and grace his speech Tending to Caesar's glories ,  which Mark Antony ,  By our permission ,  is allow'd to make . 	respect Caesar's corpse ,  and respect his speech About Caesar's glory ,  which Mark Antony Is allowed to make with our permission . 
I do entreat you ,  not a man depart ,  Save I alone ,  till Antony have spoke . 	please ,  no man leave ,  Except I alone ,  until Antony has spoken . 
for Brutus' sake ,  I am beholding to you . 	for Brutus' sake ,  I’m grateful to you . 
what does he say of Brutus ? 	what does he say about Brutus ? 
he says ,  for Brutus' sake ,  He finds himself beholding to us all . 	he says ,  for Brutus' sake ,  He finds himself grateful to us all . 
twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here . 	It’s best that he doesn’t speak harm about Brutus here . 
this Caesar was a tyrant . 	this Caesar was a tyrant . 
nay ,  that's certain . 	yes ,  that's certain . 
we are blest that Rome is rid of him . 	we are blessed that Rome is rid of him . 
peace ! 	peace ! 
let us hear what Antony can say . 	let’s hear what Antony can say . 
you gentle Romans— Peace ,  ho ! 	you gentle Romans , — Peace ,  oh ! 
let us hear him . 	let’s hear him . 
here ,  under leave of Brutus and the rest— For Brutus is an honorable man; So are they all ,  all honorable men— Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral . 	here ,  with the permission of Brutus and the rest , — Because Brutus is an honorable man; And they are all ,  all honorable men , — I come to speak in Caesar's funeral . 
he hath brought many captives home to Rome ,  Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill . 	caesar brought many captives home to Rome ,  Whose ransoms filled the national treasury . 
did this in Caesar seem ambitious ? 	did this seem ambitious in Caesar ? 
yet Brutus says he was ambitious ,  And Brutus is an honorable man . 	yet Brutus says he was ambitious; And Brutus is an honorable man . 
you all did see that on the Lupercal I thrice presented him a kingly crown ,  Which he did thrice refuse . 	you all saw that ,  on the feast of the priest Lupercus ,  I presented a kingly crown to him three times ,  Which he refused three times . 
was this ambition ? 	was this ambition ? 
yet Brutus says he was ambitious ,  And sure he is an honorable man . 	yet Brutus says he was ambitious; And ,  sure ,  he’s an honorable man . 
I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke ,  But here I am to speak what I do know . 	I don’t speak to disprove what Brutus spoke ,  But I’m here to speak what I know . 
you all did love him once ,  not without cause; What cause withholds you then to mourn for him ? 	you all loved him once , —not without reason . 
methinks there is much reason in his sayings . 	I think there is a lot of reason in what he’s saying . 
If thou consider rightly of the matter ,  Caesar has had great wrong . 	If you rightly think about the matter ,  Caesar has had great wrong done to him . 
has he ,  masters ? 	hasn’t he ,  gentlemen ? 
I fear there will a worse come in his place . 	I’m afraid that a worse man will take his place . 
mark'd ye his words ? 	did you pay attention to his words ? 
he would not take the crown; Therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious . 	caesar wouldn’t take the crown; It’s certain he wasn’t ambitious for that reason . 
If it be found so ,  some will dear abide it . 	If it’s found to be so ,  someone will dearly pay for it . 
there's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony . 	here's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony . 
now mark him ,  he begins again to speak . 	now watch him; he begins to speak again . 
but yesterday the word of Caesar might Have stood against the world . 	only yesterday ,  the word of Caesar might Have stood against the world . 
now lies he there ,  And none so poor to do him reverence . 	now lies he there ,  And there is no one too poor to pay him respect . 
I will not do them wrong; I rather choose To wrong the dead ,  to wrong myself and you ,  Than I will wrong such honorable men . 	I won’t do them wrong; I would rather choose To wrong the dead ,  to wrong myself ,  and you ,  Before I’ll wrong such honorable men . 
but here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar; I found it in his closet ,  'tis his will . 	but here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar , — I found it in his bedroom , —it’s his will . 
let but the commons hear this testament— Which ,  pardon me ,  I do not mean to read— And they would go and kiss dead Caesar's wounds And dip their napkins in his sacred blood ,  Yea ,  beg a hair of him for memory ,  And ,  dying ,  mention it within their wills ,  Bequeathing it as a rich legacy Unto their issue . 	let only the common people hear this testament , — Which ,  pardon me ,  I don’t mean to read , — And they would go and kiss dead Caesar's wounds ,  And dip their napkins in his sacred blood; Yes ,  beg a hair of him for memory ,  And ,  dying ,  mention that hair in their wills ,  Leaving it as a rich legacy To their children . 
we'll hear the will . 	we'll hear the will . 
read it ,  Mark Antony . 	read it ,  Mark Antony . 
the will ,  the will ! 	the will ,  the will ! 
we will hear Caesar's will . 	we will hear Caesar's will . 
have patience ,  gentle friends ,  I must not read it; It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you . 	have patience ,  gentle friends ,  I must not read it; It isn’t proper that you know how Caesar loved you . 
you are not wood ,  you are not stones ,  but men; And ,  being men ,  hearing the will of Caesar ,  It will inflame you ,  it will make you mad . 	you aren’t wood ,  you aren’t stones ,  you are men; And ,  being men ,  hearing the will of Caesar ,  It will inflame you; it will make you crazy . 
tis good you know not that you are his heirs ,  For if you should ,  O ,  what would come of it ! 	It’s good that you don’t know that you’re his heirs; Because if you did ,  O ,  what would happen ! 
read the will; we'll hear it ,  Antony . 	read the will ! 
you shall read us the will ,  Caesar's will . 	we'll hear it ,  Antony; You shall read us the will , —Caesar's will ! 
will you be patient ? 	won’t you be patient ? 
will you stay a while ? 	won’t you wait a minute ? 
I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it . 	I went beyond what I was going to say to tell you about it . 
I fear I wrong the honorable men Whose daggers have stabb'd Caesar; I do fear it . 	I’m afraid I wrong the honorable men Whose daggers have stabbed Caesar; I really do fear it . 
they were traitors . 	they were traitors . 
the testament ! 	the testament ! 
they were villains ,  murderers . 	they were villains ,  murderers . 
the will ! 	the will ! 
read the will ! 	read the will ! 
you will compel me then to read the will ? 	you’ll force me ,  then ,  to read the will ? 
then make a ring about the corse of Caesar ,  And let me show you him that made the will . 	then make a circle around the corpse of Caesar ,  And let me show you the man who made the will . 
shall I descend ? 	shall I come down ? 
and will you give me leave ? 	and will you give me permission ? 
you shall have leave . 	you shall have permission . 
stand from the hearse ,  stand from the body . 	stand from the hearse ,  stand from the body . 
room for Antony ,  most noble Antony . 	room for Antony ! —most noble Antony ! 
nay ,  press not so upon me ,  stand far off . 	no ,  don’t press so close to me; stand a bit away . 
If you have tears ,  prepare to shed them now . 	If you’ve got tears ,  get ready to shed them now . 
you all do know this mantle . 	you all know this cloak . 
I remember The first time ever Caesar put it on; 'Twas on a summer's evening ,  in his tent ,  That day he overcame the Nervii . 	I remember The first time Caesar ever put it on; It was on a summer's evening ,  in his tent ,  That day he overcame Belgium . 
judge ,  O you gods ,  how dearly Caesar loved him ! 	judge ,  O you gods ,  how dearly Caesar loved him ! 
this was the most unkindest cut of all; For when the noble Caesar saw him stab ,  Ingratitude ,  more strong than traitors' arms ,  Quite vanquish'd him . 	this was the most unkindest cut of all ,  Because ,  when the noble Caesar saw Brutus stab him ,  Ingratitude ,  stronger than traitors' arms ,  Quite defeated him . 
then burst his mighty heart ,  And ,  in his mantle muffling up his face ,  Even at the base of Pompey's statue ,  Which all the while ran blood ,  great Caesar fell . 	then his mighty heart burst ,  And ,  in his cloak covering up his face ,  Even at the base of Pompey's statue ,  Which was covered in blood ,  great Caesar fell . 
o ,  now you weep ,  and I perceive you feel The dint of pity . 	o ,  now you weep and I can see that you feel The blow of pity . 
these are gracious drops . 	these tears are full of grace . 
kind souls ,  what weep you when you but behold Our Caesar's vesture wounded ? 	kind souls ,  what ,  do you weep when you only see Our Caesar's clothes wounded ? 
look you here ,  Here is himself ,  marr'd ,  as you see ,  with traitors . 	look here ,  Here he is ,  disfigured ,  as you can see ,  by traitors . 
o piteous spectacle ! 	o piteous spectacle ! 
o noble Caesar ! 	o noble Caesar ! 
o woeful day ! 	o sad day ! 
o traitors ,  villains ! 	o traitors ,  villains ! 
o most bloody sight ! 	o most bloody sight ! 
let not a traitor live ! 	revenge , —go , —find , —burn , —fire , —kill , —slay , — don’t let a traitor live ! 
stay ,  countrymen . 	wait ,  countrymen . 
peace there ! 	peace there ! 
hear the noble Antony . 	hear the noble Antony . 
we'll hear him ,  we'll follow him ,  we'll die with him . 	we'll hear him ,  we'll follow him ,  we'll die with him . 
good friends ,  sweet friends ,  let me not stir you up To such a sudden flood of mutiny . 	good friends ,  sweet friends ,  don’t let me stir you up To such a sudden flood of rebellion . 
they that have done this deed are honorable . 	they who have done this deed are honorable . 
I come not ,  friends ,  to steal away your hearts . 	I didn’t come ,  friends ,  to steal away your hearts . 
but were I Brutus ,  And Brutus Antony ,  there were an Antony Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue In every wound of Caesar that should move The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny . 	but if I were Brutus ,  And if Brutus were Antony ,  there would be an Antony to Ruffle up your spirits ,  and put a tongue In every wound of Caesar ,  that would move The stones of Rome to rise and rebel . 
we'll mutiny . 	we'll rebel . 
we'll burn the house of Brutus . 	we'll burn the house of Brutus . 
away ,  then ! 	away ,  then ! 
come ,  seek the conspirators . 	come ,  find the conspirators . 
yet hear me ,  countrymen; yet hear me speak . 	but hear me ,  countrymen; still hear me speak . 
peace ,  ho ! 	peace ,  oh ! 
hear Antony ,  most noble Antony ! 	hear Antony; most noble Antony ! 
why ,  friends ,  you go to do you know not what . 	why ,  friends ,  you go ahead to do you don’t know what . 
wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves ? 	where has Caesar deserved your loves like this ? 
alas ,  you know not; I must tell you then . 	alas ,  you don’t know; I must tell you then . 
you have forgot the will I told you of . 	you’ve forgotten the will I told you of . 
here is the will ,  and under Caesar's seal . 	here is the will ,  and under Caesar's seal . 
to every Roman citizen he gives ,  To every several man ,  seventy - five drachmas . 	to every Roman citizen he gives Seventy - five dollars each . 
o royal Caesar ! 	o ,  royal Caesar ! 
hear me with patience . 	hear me with patience . 
peace ,  ho ! 	peace ,  oh ! 
here was a Caesar ! 	here was a Caesar ! 
when comes such another ? 	when does another like him come ? 
we'll burn his body in the holy place And with the brands fire the traitors' houses . 	we'll burn his body in the holy place ,  And we’ll set the traitors' houses on fire with the torches . 
take up the body . 	pick up the body . 
go fetch fire . 	go ,  go get fire . 
pluck down benches . 	grab down benches . 
pluck down forms ,  windows ,  any thing . 	grab down chairs ,  windows ,  anything . 
now let it work . 	now let it work . —Mischief ,  you’re working ! 
sir ,  Octavius is already come to Rome . 	sir ,  Octavius has already come to Rome . 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
he and Lepidus are at Caesar's house . 	he and Lepidus are at Caesar's house . 
and thither will I straight to visit him . 	and I’ll go there straight to visit him . 
he comes upon a wish . 	he comes on a wish . 
fortune is merry ,  And in this mood will give us any thing . 	fortune is merry ,  And in this mood will give us anything . 
I heard him say ,  Brutus and Cassius Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome . 	I heard them say Brutus and Cassius Are riding like madmen through the gates of Rome . 
belike they had some notice of the people ,  How I had moved them . 	It’s likely they had some notice from the people ,  How I had moved them . 
bring me to Octavius . 	take me to Octavius . 
I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Caesar ,  And things unluckily charge my fantasy . 	I dreamt tonight that I feasted with Caesar ,  And unlucky things directed my imagination . 
I have no will to wander forth of doors ,  Yet something leads me forth . 	I don’t want to go out of doors ,  Yet something leads me there . 
what is your name ? 	what is your name ? 
whither are you going ? 	where are you going ? 
where do you dwell ? 	where do you live ? 
are you a married man or a bachelor ? 	are you a married man or a bachelor ? 
answer every man directly . 	answer every man directly . 
ay ,  and briefly . 	yes ,  and briefly . 
ay ,  and wisely . 	yes ,  and wisely . 
ay ,  and truly ,  you were best . 	yes ,  and truly; you had better answer . 
what is my name ? 	what is my name ? 
whither am I going ? 	where am I going ? 
where do I dwell ? 	where do I live ? 
am I a married man or a bachelor ? 	am I a married man or a bachelor ? 
proceed directly . 	go on; directly . 
directly ,  I am going to Caesar's funeral . 	directly ,  I’m going to Caesar's funeral . 
as a friend or an enemy ? 	as a friend or an enemy ? 
as a friend . 	as a friend . 
that matter is answered directly . 	that matter is answered directly . 
for your dwelling ,  briefly . 	for your house , —briefly . 
briefly ,  I dwell by the Capitol . 	briefly ,  I live by the Capitol . 
your name ,  sir ,  truly . 	your name ,  sir ,  truly . 
truly ,  my name is Cinna . 	truly ,  my name is Cinna . 
I am Cinna the poet ,  I am Cinna the poet . 	I’m Cinna the poet; I’m Cinna the poet . 
tear him for his bad verses ,  tear him for his bad verses . 	tear him apart for his bad verses ,  tear him apart for his bad verses . 
I am not Cinna the conspirator . 	I’m not Cinna the conspirator . 
tear him ,  tear him ! 	tear him ,  tear him ! 
come ,  brands ,  ho ,  fire -  . 	come; brands ,  oh ! 
some to Decius' house ,  and some to Casca's ,  some to Ligarius' . 	some go to Decius' house ,  and some to Casca's ,  some to Ligarius' . 
away ,  go ! 	away ,  go ! 
these many then shall die ,  their names are prick'd . 	these many men then shall die; their names are checked on the list . 
I do consent— Prick him down ,  Antony . 	I do consent , — Mark him down ,  Antony . 
upon condition Publius shall not live ,  Who is your sister's son ,  Mark Antony . 	on the condition that Publius shall not live ,  Who is your nephew ,  Mark Antony . 
he shall not live; look ,  with a spot I damn him . 	he shall not live; look ,  I condemn him with a check . 
but ,  Lepidus ,  go you to Caesar's house ,  Fetch the will hither ,  and we shall determine How to cut off some charge in legacies . 	but ,  Lepidus ,  go to Caesar's house; Go get the will here ,  and we shall determine How to cut off some appointments in legacies . 
what ,  shall I find you here ? 	what ,  shall I find you here ? 
or here ,  or at the Capitol . 	here ,  or at the Capitol . 
this is a slight unmeritable man ,  Meet to be sent on errands . 	this is a foolish man without merit ,  Good to be sent on errands . 
Is it fit ,  The three - fold world divided ,  he should stand One of the three to share it ? 	Is it fitting that ,  With the world divided into three parts ,  he should be One of the three to share it ? 
so you thought him ,  And took his voice who should be prick'd to die In our black sentence and proscription . 	you thought so ,  And took his side when we decided who should die ,  In our black punishment and condemning to death . 
octavius ,  I have seen more days than you ,  And though we lay these honors on this man To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads ,  He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold ,  To groan and sweat under the business ,  Either led or driven ,  as we point the way; And having brought our treasure where we will ,  Then take we down his load and turn him off ,  Like to the empty ass ,  to shake his ears And graze in commons . 	and ,  although we lay these honors on this man ,  To ease ourselves of different ,  disgraceful burdens ,  He shall only carry them as the donkey carries gold ,  Groaning and sweating under the load ,  Either led or driven ,  as we point the way; And having brought our treasure where we choose ,  We then unload him and let him loose ,  Like an unloaded donkey ,  to shake his ears And graze in the common fields . 
you may do your will ,  But he's a tried and valiant soldier . 	you may do what you want to ,  But I say he's a tried and valiant soldier . 
so is my horse ,  Octavius ,  and for that I do appoint him store of provender . 	so is my horse ,  Octavius ,  and for that ,  I appoint him keeper of the hay . 
It is a creature that I teach to fight ,  To wind ,  to stop ,  to run directly on ,  His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit . 	my horse is a creature that I teach to fight ,  To wind ,  to stop ,  to run directly on ,  His bodily motions ruled by my whims . 
do not talk of him But as a property . 	don’t talk of him Except as a property . 
and now ,  Octavius ,  Listen great things . 	and now ,  Octavius ,  Listen to great things . 
let us do so ,  for we are at the stake ,  And bay'd about with many enemies; And some that smile have in their hearts ,  I fear ,  Millions of mischiefs . 	let’s do so ,  because we are on trial ,  And surrounded by many enemies ,  And some that have smiles in their hearts ,  I’m afraid ,  Are capable of millions of evil deeds . 
stand ,  ho ! 	stop ,  oh ! 
he is at hand ,  and Pindarus is come To do you salutation from his master . 	he’s close by ,  and Pindarus has come To bring you greetings from his master . 
let me be resolved . 	how did he receive you ,  let me be convinced . 
with courtesy and with respect enough ,  But not with such familiar instances ,  Nor with such free and friendly conference ,  As he hath used of old . 	with courtesy and with respect enough ,  Only not with such familiar instances ,  Or with such free and friendly conversation ,  As he used to in the old days . 
thou hast described A hot friend cooling . 	you’ve described A hot friend cooling off . 
ever note ,  Lucilius ,  When love begins to sicken and decay It useth an enforced ceremony . 	always note ,  Lucilius ,  When love begins to sicken and decay ,  It uses a stiff ,  cold ritual . 
there are no tricks in plain and simple faith; But hollow men ,  like horses hot at hand ,  Make gallant show and promise of their mettle; But when they should endure the bloody spur ,  They fall their crests and like deceitful jades Sink in the trial . 	there are no tricks in plain and simple trust ,  But hollow men ,  like horses very eager about something ,  Make gallant show and promises of their spirit ,  but ,  when They are supposed to endure a spur that will make them Bleed ,  they are humbled ,  and ,  like false ,  worthless horses Disappear from the fight . 
comes his army on ? 	Is his army coming ? 
march gently on to meet him . 	march gently ahead to meet him . 
stand ,  ho ! 	stand ,  oh ! 
stand ,  ho ! 	stop ,  oh ! 
speak the word along . 	pass the word along . 
stand ! 	stop ! 
stand ! 	stop ! 
stand ! 	stop ! 
most noble brother ,  you have done me wrong . 	most noble brother ,  you have done me wrong . 
judge me ,  you gods ! 	judge me ,  you gods ! 
wrong I mine enemies ? 	do I wrong my enemies ? 
and ,  if not so ,  how should I wrong a brother ? 	and ,  if that’s not true ,  how should I wrong a brother ? 
brutus ,  this sober form of yours hides wrongs ,  And when you do them— Cassius ,  be content ,  Speak your griefs softly ,  I do know you well . 	brutus ,  this sober face of yours hides wrongs; And when you do them— Cassius ,  please . 
pindarus ,  Bid our commanders lead their charges off A little from this ground . 	pindarus ,  Ask our commanders to lead their men a little Away from this place . 
that you have wrong'd me doth appear in this: You have condemn'd and noted Lucius Pella For taking bribes here of the Sardians ,  Wherein my letters ,  praying on his side ,  Because I knew the man ,  were slighted off . 	that you’ve wronged me shows in this action: You’ve condemned and punished Lucius Pella For taking bribes from the Sardians here ,  And my letters ,  taking his side Because I knew the man ,  were blown off . 
you wrong'd yourself to write in such a case . 	you wronged yourself to write me letters in such a case . 
In such a time as this it is not meet That every nice offense should bear his comment . 	In such a time as this ,  it isn’t fair That every silly offense should uphold his criticism . 
let me tell you ,  Cassius ,  you yourself Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm ,  To sell and mart your offices for gold To undeservers . 	let me tell you ,  Cassius ,  you yourself Are much condemned for being greedy ,  To sell and advertise your offices To unworthy people for gold . 
I an itching palm ? 	I’m greedy ! 
you know that you are Brutus that speaks this ,  Or ,  by the gods ,  this speech were else your last . 	thank your stars that you’re Brutus that speaks This way ,  or ,  by the gods ,  this speech would be your last . 
the name of Cassius honors this corruption ,  And chastisement doth therefore hide his head . 	the name of Cassius honors this corruption ,  And ,  for that reason ,  punishment hides his head . 
chastisement ? 	punishment ! 
remember March ,  the ides of March remember . 	remember March ,  remember the fifteenth of March ? 
did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake ? 	didn’t great Julius bleed for justice's sake ? 
what ,  shall one of us ,  That struck the foremost man of all this world But for supporting robbers ,  shall we now Contaminate our fingers with base bribes And sell the mighty space of our large honors For so much trash as may be grasped thus ? 	shall one of us Who killed the most important man in all this world Just to support robbers , — shall we now Contaminate our fingers with lowly bribes And sell the mighty positions of our great honors For so much trash as may be grabbed like this ? 
I had rather be a dog ,  and bay the moon ,  Than such a Roman . 	I had rather be a dog ,  and howl the moon ,  Than be such a Roman . 
brutus ,  bait not me ,  I'll not endure it . 	brutus ,  don’t scold me ,  I won’t put up with it . 
go to ,  you are not ,  Cassius . 	go ahead; you aren’t ,  Cassius . 
I am . 	I am . 
I say you are not . 	I say you aren’t . 
away ,  slight man ! 	away ,  skinny man ! 
Is't possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
hear me ,  for I will speak . 	listen to me ,  because I will speak . 
must I give way and room to your rash choler ? 	must I give way and room to your rash anger ? 
shall I be frighted when a madman stares ? 	shall I be afraid when a madman stares at me ? 
o gods ,  ye gods ! 	o gods ,  you gods ! 
must I endure all this ? 	must I endure all this ? 
all this ? 	all this ? 
ay ,  more . 	yes ,  more . 
must I bouge ? 	must I give in ? 
must I observe you ? 	must I watch you ? 
must I stand and crouch Under your testy humor ? 	must I stand and bend Under your short - tempered mood ? 
by the gods ,  You shall digest the venom of your spleen ,  Though it do split you ,  for ,  from this day forth ,  I'll use you for my mirth ,  yea ,  for my laughter ,  When you are waspish . 	by the gods ,  You’ll eat the poison of your proud temper ,  Even if it splits you ,  because ,  from this day on ,  I'll use you for my entertainment ,  yes ,  for my laughter ,  When you’re spiteful . 
Is it come to this ? 	has it come to this ? 
for mine own part ,  I shall be glad to learn of noble men . 	for my own part ,  I’ll be glad to learn from more capable men . 
you wrong me every way ,  you wrong me ,  Brutus . 	you wrong me every way ,  you wrong me ,  Brutus . 
I said ,  an elder soldier ,  not a better . 	I said ,  an elder soldier ,  not a better . 
did I say  “ better ”  ? 	did I say  " better ? 
If you did ,  I care not . 	If you did ,  I don’t care . 
when Caesar lived ,  he durst not thus have moved me . 	when Caesar lived ,  he wouldn’t dare insult me like this . 
peace ,  peace ! 	peace ,  peace ! 
you durst not so have tempted him . 	you wouldn’t have dared to tempt him so . 
I durst not ? 	I wouldn’t dare ? 
no . 	no . 
what ,  durst not tempt him ? 	what ,  not dare to tempt him ? 
for your life you durst not . 	for your life ,  you wouldn’t have dared . 
do not presume too much upon my love; I may do that I shall be sorry for . 	don’t presume too much about my friendship; I may do something that I’ll be sorry for . 
you have done that you should be sorry for . 	you’ve done what you should be sorry for . 
there is no terror ,  Cassius ,  in your threats ,  For I am arm'd so strong in honesty ,  That they pass by me as the idle wind Which I respect not . 	there is no terror ,  Cassius ,  in your threats ,  Because I’m armed so strongly in honesty ,  That they pass by me as the idle wind Which I don’t respect . 
I did send to you For certain sums of gold ,  which you denied me ,  For I can raise no money by vile means . 	I asked you For certain sums of gold ,  which you denied me;— Because I cannot raise any money by dirty means . 
was that done like Cassius ? 	was that rejection done like Cassius ? 
should I have answer'd Caius Cassius so ? 	should I have answered Caius Cassius if he asked me ? 
when Marcus Brutus grows so covetous To lock such rascal counters from his friends ,  Be ready ,  gods ,  with all your thunderbolts ,  Dash him to pieces ! 	when Marcus Brutus grows so greedy as To engage his friend in such battles ,  Be ready ,  gods ,  with all your thunderbolts ,  Cut him into pieces ! 
I denied you not . 	I didn’t deny you . 
you did . 	you did . 
I did not . 	I didn’t . 
he was but a fool That brought my answer back . 	he was only a fool That brought my answer back . 
brutus hath rived my heart . 	brutus has torn my heart . 
a friend should bear his friend's infirmities ,  But Brutus makes mine greater than they are . 	a friend should tolerate his friend's shortcomings ,  But Brutus makes mine greater than they are . 
I do not ,  till you practise them on me . 	I don’t ,  until you use them on me . 
you love me not . 	you’re not my friend . 
I do not like your faults . 	I don’t like your faults . 
a friendly eye could never see such faults . 	a friendly eye could never see such faults . 
a flatterer's would not ,  though they do appear As huge as high Olympus . 	a flatterer's would not ,  although they do appear As huge as high Olympus . 
come ,  Antony ,  and young Octavius ,  come ,  Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius ,  For Cassius is aweary of the world: Hated by one he loves; braved by his brother; Check'd like a bondman; all his faults observed ,  Set in a notebook ,  learn'd and conn'd by rote ,  To cast into my teeth . 	come ,  Antony and young Octavius ,  come ,  Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius ,  Because Cassius is weary of the world ,  Hated by a friend he loves; threatened by his brother; Attacked like a slave; all his faults noted ,  Set in a note - book ,  learned and memorized by heart ,  To throw back into my face . 
strike ,  as thou didst at Caesar ,  for I know ,  When thou didst hate him worst ,  thou lovedst him better Than ever thou lovedst Cassius . 	strike as you did at Caesar ,  because I know ,  When you hated him the worst ,  you loved him better Than ever you loved Cassius . 
sheathe your dagger . 	put your dagger away . 
be angry when you will ,  it shall have scope; Do what you will ,  dishonor shall be humor . 	be angry whenever you want to ,  it’ll have a purpose; Do whatever you want to ,  dishonor shall be a joke . 
o Cassius ,  you are yoked with a lamb ,  That carries anger as the flint bears fire ,  Who ,  much enforced ,  shows a hasty spark And straight is cold again . 	o Cassius ,  you’re connected to a lamb That carries anger as a match makes fire ,  Who ,  very irritated ,  shows a hasty spark ,  And right away is cold again . 
hath Cassius lived To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus ,  When grief and blood ill - temper'd vexeth him ? 	has Cassius lived To be only mirth and laughter to his Brutus ,  When sadness and ill - tempered blood aggravates him ? 
when I spoke that ,  I was ill - temper'd too . 	when I spoke that ,  I was ill - tempered too . 
do you confess so much ? 	do you confess so much ? 
give me your hand . 	give me your hand . 
and my heart too . 	and my heart too . 
have not you love enough to bear with me ,  When that rash humor which my mother gave me Makes me forgetful ? 	haven’t you got enough love to be patient with me ,  When that sudden mood which my mother gave me Makes me forgetful ? 
yes ,  Cassius ,  and from henceforth ,  When you are overearnest with your Brutus ,  He'll think your mother chides ,  and leave you so . 	yes ,  Cassius ,  and ,  from here on in ,  When you’re over - aggressive with your Brutus ,  He'll think your mother scolds ,  and leave you alone . 
let me go in to see the generals . 	let me go in to see the generals . 
there is some grudge between 'em ,  'tis not meet They be alone . 	there is some grudge between them; it’s not proper That they are alone . 
you shall not come to them . 	you shall not come to them . 
nothing but death shall stay me . 	nothing but death shall stop me . 
for shame ,  you generals ! 	for shame ,  you generals ! 
what do you mean ? 	what are you thinking ? 
love ,  and be friends ,  as two such men should be; For I have seen more years ,  I'm sure ,  than ye . 	love ,  and be friends as two such men should be ,  Because I am older ,  I'm sure ,  than you . 
ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ! 
how vilely doth this cynic rhyme ! 	how this sneering fault - finder rhymes so badly ! 
get you hence ,  sirrah; saucy fellow ,  hence ! 	get out ,  servant; rude fellow ,  go away ! 
bear with him ,  Brutus; 'tis his fashion . 	be patient with him ,  Brutus; it’s the way he is . 
I'll know his humor when he knows his time . 	I'll know his disposition when he knows the right time . 
away ,  away ,  be gone ! 	away ,  away ,  be gone ! 
lucilius and Titinius ,  bid the commanders Prepare to lodge their companies tonight . 	lucilius and Titinius ,  ask the commanders to Prepare to pitch tents for their troops tonight . 
and come yourselves and bring Messala with you Immediately to us . 	and immediately come yourselves and Bring Messala with you to us . 
lucius ,  a bowl of wine ! 	lucius ,  a bowl of wine ! 
I did not think you could have been so angry . 	I didn’t think you could be so angry . 
o Cassius ,  I am sick of many griefs . 	o Cassius ,  I’m sick because of many sorrows . 
of your philosophy you make no use ,  If you give place to accidental evils . 	you don’t use your knowledge effectively ,  If you give into unexpected evil events . 
no man bears sorrow better . 	no man handles sorrow better . 
portia is dead . 	portia is dead . 
ha ? 	ha ! 
portia ? 	portia ! 
she is dead . 	she’s dead . 
Impatient of my absence ,  And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony Have made themselves so strong: for with her death That tidings came: with this she fell distract ,  And ,  her attendants absent ,  swallow'd fire . 	Impatient that I was gone ,  And upset that young Octavius with Mark Antony Has made themselves so strong;—because that news came With the news of her death;—with all this ,  she became crazy ,  And ,  without her attendants present ,  swallowed fire . 
and died so ? 	and died from that ? 
even so . 	even from that . 
o ye immortal gods ! 	o you immortal gods ! 
my heart is thirsty for that noble pledge . 	my heart is thirsty for that noble pledge . 
fill ,  Lucius ,  till the wine o'erswell the cup; I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love . 	fill the cup ,  Lucius ,  until the wine overflows; I can’t drink too much of Brutus' friendship . 
portia ,  art thou gone ? 	portia ,  are you gone ? 
myself have letters of the selfsame tenure . 	I have letters that say the same thing . 
with what addition ? 	with what addition ? 
that by proscription and bills of outlawry Octavius ,  Antony ,  and Lepidus Have put to death an hundred senators . 	that Octavius ,  Antony ,  and Lepidus Have put to death an hundred Senators By decrees of death and bills in defiance of the law . 
cicero one ! 	cicero one ! 
no ,  Messala . 	no ,  Messala . 
nor nothing in your letters writ of her ? 	and nothing in your letters was written about her ? 
nothing ,  Messala . 	nothing ,  Messala . 
that ,  methinks ,  is strange . 	I think that’s strange . 
why ask you ? 	why do you ask ? 
hear you ought of her in yours ? 	did you hear anything about her in yours ? 
no ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
now ,  as you are a Roman ,  tell me true . 	now ,  as you’re a Roman ,  tell me the truth . 
why ,  farewell ,  Portia . 	why ,  goodbye ,  Portia . 
we must die ,  Messala . 	we must die ,  Messala . 
with meditating that she must die once I have the patience to endure it now . 	I think that ,  since she must die once ,  I have the patience to endure it now . 
even so great men great losses should endure . 	even so great men should endure great losses . 
I have as much of this in art as you ,  But yet my nature could not bear it so . 	I have as much of this skill as you ,  But still I couldn’t bear such new like that . 
well ,  to our work alive . 	well ,  let’s get to our work . 
what do you think Of marching to Philippi presently ? 	what do you think Of marching to Philippi now ? 
I do not think it good . 	I don’t think it’s a good idea . 
your reason ? 	your reason ? 
good reasons must of force give place to better . 	good reasons must ,  of course ,  yield to better reasons . 
the people 'twixt Philippi and this ground Do stand but in a forced affection ,  For they have grudged us contribution . 	the people between Philippi and this field Are only our friends because we force them to ,  Because they are unwilling to give us support . 
the enemy ,  marching along by them ,  By them shall make a fuller number up ,  Come on refresh'd ,  new - added ,  and encouraged; From which advantage shall we cut him off If at Philippi we do face him there ,  These people at our back . 	the enemy ,  marching along with them ,  Will increase their numbers with them ,  and Attack refreshed ,  reinforced ,  and encouraged; We shall cut him off from that advantage ,  If we face him at Philippi ,  with These people behind us . 
hear me ,  good brother . 	listen to me me ,  good brother . 
under your pardon . 	excuse me . 
there is a tide in the affairs of men Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune; Omitted ,  all the voyage of their life Is bound in shallows and in miseries . 	there is a tide in the affairs of men Which ,  if taken at high tide ,  leads to good luck; Not taken ,  all the voyages of their lives Are bound to end in shallows and in miseries . 
on such a full sea are we now afloat ,  And we must take the current when it serves ,  Or lose our ventures . 	we are now afloat on such a high tide ,  And we must take the opportunity when it presents itself ,  Or lose our one lucky chance . 
the deep of night is crept upon our talk ,  And nature must obey necessity ,  Which we will niggard with a little rest . 	the deep of night has crept over our talk ,  And nature must obey necessity; Which we will put off with a little rest . 
there is no more to say ? 	Is there anything else to say ? 
no more . 	no more . 
good night . 	good night . 
early tomorrow will we rise and hence . 	we will rise early tomorrow ,  and be on our way . 
o my dear brother ! 	o my dear brother ! 
this was an ill beginning of the night . 	this was a bad beginning of the night . 
never come such division 'tween our souls ! 	never let such disagreements come between our souls ! 
let it not ,  Brutus . 	don’t let it ,  Brutus . 
good night ,  good brother . 	good night ,  good brother . 
good night ,  Lord Brutus . 	good night ,  Lord Brutus . 
where is thy instrument ? 	where is your harp ? 
here in the tent . 	here in the tent . 
what ,  thou speak'st drowsily ? 	what ,  you speak drowsily . 
poor knave ,  I blame thee not ,  thou art o'erwatch'd . 	poor knave ,  I don’t blame You; you’ve been wake up too long . 
call Claudius and some other of my men ,  I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent . 	call Claudius and some Others of my men; I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent . 
varro and Claudio ! 	varro and Claudius ! 
calls my lord ? 	calls my lord ? 
I pray you ,  sirs ,  lie in my tent and sleep; It may be I shall raise you by and by On business to my brother Cassius . 	please ,  sirs ,  lie in my tent and sleep; I might wake you up in a little while About business to my brother Cassius . 
so please you ,  we will stand and watch your pleasure . 	please ,  we will stand here and wait for your instructions . 
I was sure your lordship did not give it me . 	I was sure your lordship didn’t give it me . 
bear with me ,  good boy ,  I am much forgetful . 	be patient with me ,  good boy ,  I’m very forgetful . 
canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes a while ,  And touch thy instrument a strain or two ? 	can you keep your heavy eyes open awhile ,  And play a song or two on your harp ? 
ay ,  my lord ,  an't please you . 	yes ,  my lord ,  if it pleases you . 
It does ,  my boy . 	It does ,  my boy . 
I trouble thee too much ,  but thou art willing . 	I bother you too much ,  but you’re willing . 
It is my duty ,  sir . 	It is my duty ,  sir . 
I should not urge thy duty past thy might; I know young bloods look for a time of rest . 	I shouldn’t make you do your duty past your strength; I know young bloods look for time of rest . 
I have slept ,  my lord ,  already . 	I have already slept ,  my lord . 
It was well done ,  and thou shalt sleep again; I will not hold thee long . 	you did well ,  and you shall sleep again; I’ll not keep you long . 
If thou dost nod ,  thou break'st thy instrument; I'll take it from thee; and ,  good boy ,  good night . 	If you nod ,  you’ll break your harp; I'll take it from you ,  and ,  good boy ,  good night . 
let me see ,  let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down Where I left reading ? 	let me see ,  let me see; isn’t the page turned down Where I left reading ? 
here it is ,  I think . 	here it is ,  I think . 
how ill this taper burns ! 	how badly this candle burns ! 
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes That shapes this monstrous apparition . 	I think it is the weakness of my eyes That sees this monstrous ghost . 
art thou some god ,  some angel ,  or some devil That makest my blood cold ,  and my hair to stare ? 	are you some god ,  some angel ,  or some devil ,  That makes my blood cold and my hair to stand on end ? 
speak to me what thou art . 	tell what you are . 
thy evil spirit ,  Brutus . 	your evil spirit ,  Brutus . 
why comest thou ? 	why do you come ? 
to tell thee thou shalt see me at Philippi . 	to tell you that you shall see me at Philippi . 
well ,  then I shall see thee again ? 	well; then I shall see you again ? 
ay ,  at Philippi . 	yes ,  at Philippi . 
why ,  I will see thee at Philippi then . 	why ,  I’ll see you at Philippi ,  then . 
now I have taken heart thou vanishest . 	now I feel better ,  you have vanished . 
varro ! 	lucius ! —Varro ! 
claudius ! 	claudius ! 
the strings ,  my lord ,  are false . 	the strings ,  my lord ,  are false . 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
didst thou dream ,  Lucius ,  that thou so criedst out ? 	were you dreaming ,  Lucius ,  that you cried out like that ? 
my lord ,  I do not know that I did cry . 	my lord ,  I don’t know that I did cry . 
yes ,  that thou didst . 	yes ,  you did . 
didst thou see any thing ? 	did you see anything ? 
nothing ,  my lord . 	nothing ,  my lord . 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
why did you so cry out ,  sirs ,  in your sleep ? 	sirs ,  why did you cry out like that your sleep ? 
did we ,  my lord ? 	did we ,  my lord ? 
no ,  my lord ,  I saw nothing . 	no ,  my lord ,  I saw nothing . 
nor I ,  my lord . 	nor I ,  my lord . 
It shall be done ,  my lord . 	I’ll do that ,  my lord . 
now ,  Antony ,  our hopes are answered . 	now ,  Antony ,  our prayers are answered . 
you said the enemy would not come down ,  But keep the hills and upper regions . 	you said the enemy would not come down ,  But keep the hills and upper regions . 
It proves not so . 	turns out to be untrue; their battles are nearby . 
their battles are at hand; They mean to warn us at Philippi here ,  Answering before we do demand of them . 	they mean to warn us here at Philippi ,  Answering us before we demand answers of them . 
tut ,  I am in their bosoms ,  and I know Wherefore they do it . 	nonsense ,  I’m in their hearts ,  and I know Why they do it . 
they could be content To visit other places ,  and come down With fearful bravery ,  thinking by this face To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage; But 'tis not so . 	they could be content To go to other places ,  and come down With fearful bravery ,  thinking that by this face To impress our minds ,  they have courage; But it’s not true . 
prepare you ,  generals . 	prepare yourselves ,  generals . 
the enemy comes on in gallant show; Their bloody sign of battle is hung out ,  And something to be done immediately . 	the enemy comes on in a show full of noble daring; Their bloody sign of battle is hung out ,  And something has to be done immediately . 
octavius ,  lead your battle softly on ,  Upon the left hand of the even field . 	octavius ,  lead your battle quietly on ,  On the left hand of the even field . 
upon the right hand I ,  keep thou the left . 	I will be on the right hand; you keep to the left . 
why do you cross me in this exigent ? 	why do you cross me in this command ? 
I do not cross you ,  but I will do so . 	I don’t cross you ,  but I will . 
they stand ,  and would have parley . 	they stop and want to talk . 
mark Antony ,  shall we give sign of battle ? 	mark Antony ,  shall we give sign of battle ? 
no ,  Caesar ,  we will answer on their charge . 	no ,  Caesar ,  we will respond to their attack . 
make forth ,  the generals would have some words . 	stay here; the generals want to talk . 
stir not until the signal . 	don’t move until the signal . 
words before blows . 	words before blows . 
Is it so ,  countrymen ? 	Is that the way it is ,  countrymen ? 
not that we love words better ,  as you do . 	not because we love words better ,  as you do . 
good words are better than bad strokes ,  Octavius . 	good words are better than bad strokes ,  Octavius . 
In your bad strokes ,  Brutus ,  you give good words . 	In your bad strokes ,  Brutus ,  you give good words . 
witness the hole you made in Caesar's heart ,  Crying  “ Long live ! 	witness the hole you made in Caesar's heart ,  Crying ,   " Long live ! 
not stingless too . 	not stingless too . 
o ,  yes ,  and soundless too ,  For you have stol'n their buzzing ,  Antony ,  And very wisely threat before you sting . 	o ,  yes ,  and soundless too ,  Because you’ve stolen their buzzing ,  Antony ,  And very wisely threaten before you sting . 
you show'd your teeth like apes ,  and fawn'd like hounds ,  And bow'd like bondmen ,  kissing Caesar's feet; Whilst damned Casca ,  like a cur ,  behind Struck Caesar on the neck . 	you showed your teeth like apes ,  and wagged your tails Like hounds ,  and bowed like slaves ,  kissing Caesar's feet; While damned Casca ,  like a wild dog ,  struck Caesar From behind on the neck . 
come ,  come ,  the cause . 	come ,  come ,  the reason . 
If arguing make us sweat ,  The proof of it will turn to redder drops . 	If arguing makes us sweat ,  The proof of it will turn to redder drops . 
never ,  till Caesar's three and thirty wounds Be well avenged ,  or till another Caesar Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors . 	never ,  until Caesar's thirty - three wounds Are well avenged ,  or until another Caesar Has added slaughter to the sword of traitors . 
caesar ,  thou canst not die by traitors' hands ,  Unless thou bring'st them with thee . 	caesar ,  you cannot die by traitors' hands ,  Unless you bring them with you . 
so I hope ,  I was not born to die on Brutus' sword . 	I hope so; I was not born to die on Brutus' sword . 
o ,  if thou wert the noblest of thy strain ,  Young man ,  thou couldst not die more honorable . 	o ,  if you were the noblest of your strain ,  Young man ,  you could not die more honorably . 
a peevish school boy ,  worthless of such honor ,  Join'd with a masker and a reveller ! 	a peevish schoolboy ,  worthless of such honor ,  Joined with a man in a mask and a party man ! 
old Cassius still ! 	old Cassius ,  be still ! 
If you dare fight today ,  come to the field; If not ,  when you have stomachs . 	If you dare to fight today ,  come to the field; If not ,  come when you’ve got stomachs . 
why ,  now ,  blow and ,  swell billow ,  and swim bark ! 	why ,  now ,  blow wind ,  swell seas ,  and swim ships ! 
the storm is up ,  and all is on the hazard . 	the storm is coming up ,  and everything is at stake . 
ho ,  Lucilius ! 	oh ,  Lucilius ! 
hark ,  a word with you . 	listen ,  may I have a word with you ? 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
messala ,  This is my birthday ,  as this very day Was Cassius born . 	messala ,  This is my birthday; Cassius was born On this very day . 
give me thy hand ,  Messala . 	give me your hand ,  Messala . 
be thou my witness that ,  against my will ,  As Pompey was ,  am I compell'd to set Upon one battle all our liberties . 	you be my witness that ,  against my will ,  As Pompey was ,  I am compelled to set All our liberties on one battle . 
you know that I held Epicurus strong ,  And his opinion . 	you know that I strongly held Epicurus ,  And his opinion . 
now I change my mind ,  And partly credit things that do presage . 	now I change my mind ,  And partly credit things that have been predicted . 
coming from Sardis ,  on our former ensign Two mighty eagles fell ,  and there they perch'd ,  Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands ,  Who to Philippi here consorted us . 	coming from Sardis ,  two mighty eagles fell On our former ensign ,  and they perched there ,  Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands; Who were associated with us here in Philippi . 
this morning are they fled away and gone ,  And in their steads do ravens ,  crows ,  and kites Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us ,  As we were sickly prey . 	this morning ,  they have fled away and are gone; And in their places ,  ravens ,  crows ,  and kites Fly over our heads and look down on us As if we were sickly prey . 
their shadows seem A canopy most fatal ,  under which Our army lies ,  ready to give up the ghost . 	their shadows seem like A killing canopy under which Our army lies ,  ready to surrender . 
believe not so . 	don’t believe it . 
I but believe it partly ,  For I am fresh of spirit and resolved To meet all perils very constantly . 	I only believe part of it ,  Because my spirit is fresh ,  and I am resolved To meet all perils very constantly . 
even so ,  Lucilius . 	even like that ,  Lucilius . 
now ,  most noble Brutus ,  The gods today stand friendly ,  that we may ,  Lovers in peace ,  lead on our days to age ! 	now ,  most noble Brutus ,  The gods are friendly today ,  so that we may ,  Friends in peace ,  increase our days to old age ! 
but ,  since the affairs of men rest still incertain ,  Let's reason with the worst that may befall . 	but ,  since the affairs of men still seem uncertain ,  Let's think about the worst that can happen . 
If we do lose this battle ,  then is this The very last time we shall speak together . 	If we lose this battle ,  then this is The very last time we shall speak together . 
what are you then determined to do ? 	what are you determined to do then ? 
even by the rule of that philosophy By which I did blame Cato for the death Which he did give himself: I know not how ,  But I do find it cowardly and vile ,  For fear of what might fall ,  so to prevent The time of life: arming myself with patience To stay the providence of some high powers That govern us below . 	even by the rule of that knowledge By which I blamed Cato for his suicide— I don’t know why ,  But I think it’s cowardly and vile to take Your own life because of the fear of what might happen— Arming myself with the patience To wait for the help of some high powers That govern us here below . 
then ,  if we lose this battle ,  You are contented to be led in triumph Thorough the streets of Rome ? 	then ,  if we lose this battle ,  You’re contented to be led in triumph Thorough the streets of Rome ? 
no ,  Cassius ,  no . 	no ,  Cassius ,  no . 
therefore our everlasting farewell take . 	for that reason ,  take our last ,  eternal goodbye . 
for ever ,  and for ever ,  farewell ,  Cassius ! 	forever ,  and forever ,  goodbye ,  Cassius ! 
If we do meet again ,  why ,  we shall smile; If not ,  why then this parting was well made . 	If we do meet again ,  why ,  we’ll smile; If not ,  why ,  then this parting was the right thing to do . 
for ever and for ever farewell ,  Brutus ! 	forever and forever goodbye ,  Brutus ! 
If we do meet again ,  we'll smile indeed; If not ,  'tis true this parting was well made . 	If we do meet again ,  we'll smile indeed; If not ,  it’s true this parting was the right thing to do . 
why then ,  lead on . 	why then ,  lead on . 
o ,  that a man might know The end of this day's business ere it come ! 	o ,  that a man might know How today's business ends before it comes ! 
away ! 	away ! 
ride ,  ride ,  Messala ,  ride ,  and give these bills Unto the legions on the other side . 	ride ,  ride ,  Messala ,  ride ,  and give these bills To the legions on the other side . 
let them set on at once ,  for I perceive But cold demeanor in Octavius' wing ,  And sudden push gives them the overthrow . 	let them start the battle immediately because I see Only cold appearances in Octavius' part of the army ,  And a sudden push will overthrow them . 
ride ,  ride ,  Messala . 	ride ,  ride ,  Messala . 
let them all come down . 	let all the soldiers come down . 
o ,  look ,  Titinius ,  look ,  the villains fly ! 	o ,  look ,  Titinius ,  look ,  the enemy flies ! 
myself have to mine own turn'd enemy . 	I have turned enemy to my own . 
this ensign here of mine was turning back; I slew the coward ,  and did take it from him . 	this ensign of mine here was turning back; I killed the coward and took it from him . 
o Cassius ,  Brutus gave the word too early ,  Who ,  having some advantage on Octavius ,  Took it too eagerly . 	o Cassius ,  Brutus gave the word too early ,  Who ,  having some advantage on Octavius ,  Took it too eagerly . 
his soldiers fell to spoil ,  Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed . 	his soldiers were destroyed While we are all surrounded by Antony . 
fly further off ,  my lord ,  fly further off; Mark Antony is in your tents ,  my lord; Fly ,  therefore ,  noble Cassius ,  fly far off . 	fly further off ,  my lord ,  fly further off; Mark Antony is in your tents ,  my lord . 
this hill is far enough . 	fly ,  for that reason ,  noble Cassius ,  fly far off . 
look ,  look ,  Titinius: Are those my tents where I perceive the fire ? 	this hill is far enough . —Look ,  look ,  Titinius; Are those my tents on fire ? 
they are ,  my lord . 	they are ,  my lord . 
titinius ,  if thou lovest me ,  Mount thou my horse and hide thy spurs in him ,  Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops And here again ,  that I may rest assured Whether yond troops are friend or enemy . 	titinius ,  if you love me ,  Mount my horse and hide your spurs in him ,  Until he has brought you up to the troops over there And back here again that I may rest assured Whether the troops over there are friend or enemy . 
I will be here again ,  even with a thought . 	I’ll be here again ,  even with a thought . 
o my lord ! 	o my lord ! 
what news ? 	what news ? 
o ,  he lights too . 	o ,  he dismounts too . 
come hither ,  sirrah . 	come here ,  servant . 
In Parthia did I take thee prisoner ,  And then I swore thee ,  saving of thy life ,  That whatsoever I did bid thee do ,  Thou shouldst attempt it . 	In Parthia I took you prisoner; And then I made you swear ,  since I saved your life ,  That whatever I asked you to do ,  You should attempt it . 
come now ,  keep thine oath; Now be a freeman ,  and with this good sword ,  That ran through Caesar's bowels ,  search this bosom . 	come now ,  keep your oath; Now be a freeman ,  and ,  search this chest with this good sword ,  That ran through Caesar's bowels . 
far from this country Pindarus shall run ,  Where never Roman shall take note of him . 	pindarus shall run far from this country ,  Where no Roman shall ever notice him . 
It is but change ,  Titinius ,  for Octavius Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power ,  As Cassius' legions are by Antony . 	It is only change ,  Titinius ,  because Octavius Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power ,  As Cassius' armies are by Antony . 
these tidings would well comfort Cassius . 	these tidings would comfort Cassius very well . 
where did you leave him ? 	where did you leave him ? 
all disconsolate ,  With Pindarus his bondman ,  on this hill . 	all very upset ,  With Pindarus his slave ,  on this hill . 
Is not that he that lies upon the ground ? 	Isn’t that he who lies on the ground ? 
he lies not like the living . 	he doesn’t lie like the living . 
o my heart ! 	o my heart ! 
Is not that he ? 	Isn’t that he ? 
our day is gone; Clouds ,  dews ,  and dangers come; our deeds are done ! 	our day is gone; Come clouds ,  dews ,  and dangers; our deeds are done ! 
mistrust of my success hath done this deed . 	lack of trust in my success has done this deed . 
mistrust of good success hath done this deed . 	lack of trust in good success has done this deed . 
o error ,  soon conceived ,  Thou never comest unto a happy birth ,  But kill'st the mother that engender'd thee ! 	o Mistake ,  soon conceived ,  You never come to a happy birth ,  Only kill the mother that had you ! 
what ,  Pindarus ! 	what ,  Pindarus ! 
where art thou ,  Pindarus ? 	where are you ,  Pindarus ? 
seek him ,  Titinius ,  whilst I go to meet The noble Brutus ,  thrusting this report Into his ears . 	find him ,  Titinius ,  while I go ahead to meet The noble Brutus ,  thrusting this report Into his ears . 
I may say  “ thrusting ”  it ,  For piercing steel and darts envenomed Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus As tidings of this sight . 	I may say ,  thrusting it ,  Because piercing steel and poison darts Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus As the news of this sight . 
did I not meet thy friends ? 	didn’t I meet your friends ? 
and did not they Put on my brows this wreath of victory ,  And bid me give it thee ? 	and didn’t they Put this wreath of victory on my brows ,  And told me to give it you ? 
didst thou not hear their shouts ? 	didn’t you hear their shouts ? 
alas ,  thou hast misconstrued every thing ! 	alas ,  you’ve misunderstood everything ! 
but ,  hold thee ,  take this garland on thy brow; Thy Brutus bid me give it thee ,  and I Will do his bidding . 	but ,  wait ,  take this garland for your head . 
come ,  Cassius' sword ,  and find Titinius' heart . 	come ,  Cassius' sword ,  and find Titinius' heart . 
where ,  where ,  Messala ,  doth his body lie ? 	where ,  where ,  Messala ,  does his body lie ? 
lo ,  yonder ,  and Titinius mourning it . 	behold ,  over there ,  and Titinius’ mourning it . 
titinius' face is upward . 	titinius' face is upward . 
he is slain . 	he’s slain . 
o Julius Caesar ,  thou art mighty yet ! 	o Julius Caesar ,  you’re mighty yet ! 
thy spirit walks abroad ,  and turns our swords In our own proper entrails . 	your spirit walks abroad ,  and turns our swords Into our own guts . 
brave Titinius ! 	brave Titinius ! 
look whether he have not crown'd dead Cassius ! 	look whether he has crowned dead Cassius or not ! 
yet ,  countrymen ,  O ,  yet hold up your heads ! 	yet ,  countrymen ,  O ,  still hold up your heads ! 
what bastard doth not ? 	what bastard doesn’t ? 
who will go with me ? 	who will go with me ? 
and I am Brutus ,  Marcus Brutus ,  I; Brutus ,  my country's friend; know me for Brutus ! 	and I’m Brutus ,  Marcus Brutus; Brutus ,  my country's friend; know me as Brutus ! 
o young and noble Cato ,  art thou down ? 	o young and noble Cato ,  are you down ? 
why ,  now thou diest as bravely as Titinius ,  And mayst be honor'd ,  being Cato's son . 	why ,  now you die as bravely as Titinius ,  And may be honored ,  being Cato's son . 
yield ,  or thou diest . 	yield ,  or you die . 
only I yield to die . 	but I yield to die . 
there is so much that thou wilt kill me straight: Kill Brutus ,  and be honor'd in his death . 	there is so much money if you’ll kill me now; Kill Brutus ,  and be honored in his death . 
we must not . 	we must not . 
a noble prisoner ! 	a noble prisoner ! 
room ,  ho ! 	room ,  oh ! 
tell Antony ,  Brutus is ta'en . 	tell Antony ,  Brutus is taken . 
I'll tell the news . 	I'll tell the news . 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
safe ,  Antony ,  Brutus is safe enough . 	safe ,  Antony; Brutus is safe enough . 
when you do find him ,  or alive or dead ,  He will be found like Brutus ,  like himself . 	when you do find him ,  or alive or dead ,  He’ll be found like Brutus ,  like himself . 
this is not Brutus ,  friend ,  but ,  I assure you ,  A prize no less in worth . 	this isn’t Brutus ,  friend ,  but ,  I assure you ,  A prize no less worthy . 
keep this man safe ,  Give him all kindness; I had rather have Such men my friends than enemies . 	keep this man safe ,  Give him all kindness; I would rather have Such men as my friends than enemies . 
go on ,  And see whether Brutus be alive or dead ,  And bring us word unto Octavius' tent How every thing is chanced . 	go on ,  And see whether Brutus is alive or dead ,  And bring us word how everything happened To Octavius' tent . 
come ,  poor remains of friends ,  rest on this rock . 	come ,  poor remains of friends ,  rest on this rock . 
statilius show'd the torch - light ,  but ,  my lord ,  He came not back . 	statilius showed the torchlight ,  but ,  my lord ,  He didn’t come back . 
he is or ta'en or slain . 	he’s or taken or slain . 
sit thee down ,  Clitus . 	sit down ,  Clitus . 
slaying is the word: It is a deed in fashion . 	slaying is the word; It is a deed that’s in style . 
hark thee ,  Clitus . 	listen ,  Clitus . 
what ,  I ,  my lord ? 	what ,  I ,  my lord ? 
no ,  not for all the world . 	no ,  not for all the world . 
peace then ,  no words . 	peace then ! 
I'll rather kill myself . 	I'd rather kill myself . 
hark thee ,  Dardanius . 	listen ,  Dardanius . 
shall I do such a deed ? 	shall I do such a deed ? 
o Dardanius ! 	o Dardanius ! 
o Clitus ! 	o Clitus ! 
what ill request did Brutus make to thee ? 	what wicked request did Brutus make to you ? 
to kill him ,  Clitus . 	to kill him ,  Clitus . 
look ,  he meditates . 	look ,  he meditates . 
now is that noble vessel full of grief ,  That it runs over even at his eyes . 	now that noble vessel is so full of grief ,  That it runs over ,  even from his eyes . 
come hither ,  good Volumnius ,  list a word . 	come here ,  good Volumnius; listen to a few words . 
what says my lord ? 	what do you say ,  my lord ? 
I know my hour is come . 	I know I’m going to die . 
not so ,  my lord . 	not so ,  my lord . 
nay ,  I am sure it is ,  Volumnius . 	no ,  I’m sure of it ,  Volumnius . 
good Volumnius ,  Thou know'st that we two went to school together; Even for that our love of old ,  I prithee ,  Hold thou my sword - hilts ,  whilst I run on it . 	good Volumnius ,  You know that we two went to school together; Even because that our love of old ,  please ,  Hold my sword handle while I run into it . 
that's not an office for a friend ,  my lord . 	that's not a job for a friend ,  my lord . 
I shall have glory by this losing day ,  More than Octavius and Mark Antony By this vile conquest shall attain unto . 	I shall have glory by this losing day ,  More than Octavius and Mark Antony Shall get by this evil conquest . 
so ,  fare you well at once ,  for Brutus' tongue Hath almost ended his life's history . 	so ,  goodbye now ,  because Brutus' tongue Has almost ended his life's story . 
night hangs upon mine eyes ,  my bones would rest That have but labor'd to attain this hour . 	night hangs on my eyes; my bones that have only Labored to attain this hour want to rest . 
fly ,  my lord ,  fly . 	fly ,  my lord ,  fly ! 
hence ! 	away ! 
thou art a fellow of a good respect; Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it . 	you’re a fellow of a good respect; Your life has some smack of honor in it . 
hold then my sword ,  and turn away thy face ,  While I do run upon it . 	hold my sword ,  then ,  and turn away your face ,  While I run on it . 
wilt thou ,  Strato ? 	will you ,  Strato ? 
give me your hand first . 	give me your hand first . 
fare you well ,  my lord . 	goodbye ,  my lord . 
farewell ,  good Strato . 	goodbye ,  good Strato . 
what man is that ? 	what man is that ? 
ay ,  if Messala will prefer me to you . 	yes ,  if Messala will recommend me to you . 
do so ,  good Messala . 	do so ,  good Messala . 
how died my master ,  Strato ? 	how did my master die ,  Strato ? 
I held the sword ,  and he did run on it . 	I held the sword ,  and he ran into it . 
octavius ,  then take him to follow thee That did the latest service to my master . 	octavius ,  then take him to follow you ,  Who did the latest service to my master . 
this was the noblest Roman of them all . 	this was the noblest Roman of them all . 
all the conspirators ,  save only he ,  Did that they did in envy of great Caesar; He only ,  in a general honest thought And common good to all ,  made one of them . 	all the conspirators ,  except him ,  Did that they did out of jealousy of great Caesar; Only he ,  in a general - honest thought And common good to all ,  made one of them . 
what enterprise ,  Popillius ? 	what endeavor ,  Popillius ? 
fare you well . 	good luck . 
look how he makes to Caesar . 	look ,  he’s approaching Caesar . 
mark him . 	keep an eye on him . 
casca ,  be sudden ,  for we fear prevention —Brutus ,  what shall be done ? 	brutus ,  what will we do ? 
If this be known ,  Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back ,  For I will slay myself . 	If our secret’s known ,  either Caesar or I will die ,  for I’ll kill myself . 
cassius ,  be constant . 	cassius ,  stand firm . 
trebonius knows his time . 	trebonius knows his cue . 
where is Metellus Cimber ? 	where’s Metellus Cimber ? 
let him go And presently prefer his suit to Caesar . 	he should go up and offer his petition to Caesar now . 
he is addressed . 	they’re speaking to him . 
press near and second him . 	go up there and second his petition . 
casca ,  you are the first that rears your hand . 	casca ,  you’ll be the first to raise your hand . 
are we all ready ? 	are we all ready ? 
most high ,  most mighty ,  and most puissant Caesar ,  Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat An humble heart—     I must prevent thee ,  Cimber . 	I have to stop you ,  Cimber . 
these couchings and these lowly courtesies Might fire the blood of ordinary men And turn preordinance and first decree Into the law of children . 	these kneelings and humble courtesies might excite ordinary men ,  flattering them into turning Roman law into children’s games . 
what ,  Brutus ? 	what ,  even you ,  Brutus ? 
I could be well moved if I were as you . 	I could be convinced if I were like you . 
If I could pray to move ,  prayers would move me . 	If I could beg others to change their minds ,  begging would convince me ,  too . 
but I am constant as the northern star ,  Of whose true - fixed and resting quality There is no fellow in the firmament . 	but I’m as immovable as the northern star ,  whose stable and stationary quality has no equal in the sky . 
the skies are painted with unnumbered sparks . 	the sky shows countless stars . 
so in the world . 	so it is on earth . 
and that I am he Let me a little show it even in this: That I was constant Cimber should be banished ,  And constant do remain to keep him so . 	to show you that that’s me ,  let me prove it a little even in this case . 
hence ! 	enough ! 
wilt thou lift up Olympus ? 	would you try to lift Mount Olympus ? 
doth not Brutus bootless kneel ? 	haven’t I resisted even Brutus ,  begging from his knees ? 
speak ,  hands ,  for me ! 	hands ,  speak for me ! 
liberty ! 	liberty ! 
freedom ! 	freedom ! 
tyranny is dead ! 	tyranny is dead ! 
run hence ,  proclaim ,  cry it about the streets . 	run and proclaim it in the streets . 
some to the common pulpits ,  and cry out ,   “ Liberty ,  freedom ,  and enfranchisement !  ”  People and senators ,  be not affrighted . 	some should go to the public platforms and cry out ,   “ Liberty ,  freedom ,  and democracy !  ”  People and senators ,  don’t be afraid . 
fly not . 	don’t run away—stay where you are . 
go to the pulpit ,  Brutus . 	go to the platform ,  Brutus . 
and Cassius too . 	and Cassius too . 
where’s Publius ? 	where’s Publius ? 
stand fast together ,  lest some friend of Caesar’s Should chance— Talk not of standing . —Publius ,  good cheer . 	stand close together ,  in case someone loyal to Caesar tries to— Don’t talk about standing together . —Publius ,  cheer up . 
there is no harm intended to your person ,  Nor to no Roman else . 	we don’t intend any harm to you ,  nor to anyone else . 
so tell them ,  Publius . 	tell them this ,  Publius . 
and leave us ,  Publius ,  lest that the people ,  Rushing on us ,  should do your age some mischief . 	and leave us ,  Publius ,  in case the people storming us should harm you . 
do so . 	do so . 
and let no man abide this deed But we the doers . 	and let no one suffer for this deed except us ,  the perpetrators . 
where is Antony ? 	where’s Antony ? 
fled to his house amazed . 	he ran to his house ,  stunned . 
men ,  wives ,  and children stare ,  cry out ,  and run As it were doomsday . 	men ,  wives ,  and children stare ,  cry out ,  and run in the streets as though it were doomsday . 
why ,  he that cuts off twenty years of life Cuts off so many years of fearing death . 	why ,  the man who shortens his life by twenty years cuts off twenty years of worrying about death . 
stoop ,  Romans ,  stoop ,  And let us bathe our hands in Caesar’s blood Up to the elbows ,  and besmear our swords . 	kneel ,  Romans ,  kneel ,  and let’s wash our hands ,  up to the elbows ,  in Caesar’s blood and smear it on our swords . 
then walk we forth ,  even to the marketplace ,  And waving our red weapons o'er our heads Let’s all cry ,   “ Peace ,  freedom ,  and liberty !  ”  Stoop ,  then ,  and wash . 	then we’ll go out ,  even to the marketplace ,  and ,  waving our bloody swords over our heads ,  let’s cry ,   “ Peace ,  freedom ,  and liberty !  ”  Kneel then ,  and wash . 
who calls ? 	who’s calling me ? 
bid every noise be still . 	quiet ,  everyone ! 
peace yet again . 	quiet ! 
who is it in the press that calls on me ? 	who in the crowd is calling me ? 
I hear a tongue ,  shriller than all the music ,  Cry  “ Caesar !  ” —Speak . 	I hear a voice more piercing than the music of these trumpets calling  “ Caesar !  ”  Speak . 
caesar is turned to hear . 	caesar is listening . 
beware the ides of March . 	beware of March 15th . 
what man is that ? 	who’s that ? 
a soothsayer bids you beware the ides of March . 	a soothsayer tells you to beware of March 15th . 
set him before me . 	bring him in front of me . 
let me see his face . 	let me see his face . 
fellow ,  come from the throng . 	you ,  fellow ,  step out of the crowd . 
look upon Caesar . 	this is Caesar you’re looking at . 
what sayst thou to me now ? 	what do you have to say to me now ? 
speak once again . 	speak once again . 
beware the ides of March . 	beware of March 15th . 
he is a dreamer . 	he’s insane . 
let us leave him . 	let’s leave him . 
pass ! 	let’s move . 
will you go see the order of the course ? 	are you going to watch the race ? 
how many times shall Caesar bleed in sport ,  That now on Pompey’s basis lies along No worthier than the dust ! 	how many times will Caesar bleed again in show ,  though he now lies at the base of Pompey’s statue ,  as worthless as dust ! 
ay ,  every man away . 	yes ,  every man forward . 
brutus shall lead ,  and we will grace his heels With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome . 	brutus will lead ,  and we’ll follow him with the boldest and best hearts of Rome . 
soft ! 	wait a minute . 
who comes here ? 	who’s that coming ? 
a friend of Antony’s . 	It’s a friend of Antony’s . 
thy master is a wise and valiant Roman . 	your master is a wise and honorable Roman . 
I never thought him worse . 	I never thought any less of him . 
tell him ,  so please him come unto this place ,  He shall be satisfied and ,  by my honor ,  Depart untouched . 	tell him ,  if he comes here ,  I’ll explain everything to him and ,  on my word ,  he’ll leave unharmed . 
I know that we shall have him well to friend . 	I know that he’ll be on our side . 
but here comes Antony . —Welcome ,  Mark Antony . 	but here comes Antony . —Welcome ,  Mark Antony . 
o mighty Caesar ! 	oh ,  mighty Caesar ! 
dost thou lie so low ? 	do you lie so low ? 
are all thy conquests ,  glories ,  triumphs ,  spoils ,  Shrunk to this little measure ? 	have all your conquests ,  glories ,  triumphs ,  achievements ,  come to so little ? 
fare thee well . 	farewell . 
I know not ,  gentlemen ,  what you intend ,  Who else must be let blood ,  who else is rank . 	gentlemen ,  I don’t know what you intend to do ,  who else you intend to kill ,  who else you consider corrupt . 
If I myself ,  there is no hour so fit As Caesar’s death’s hour ,  nor no instrument Of half that worth as those your swords ,  made rich With the most noble blood of all this world . 	If it’s me ,  there’s no time as good as this hour of Caesar’s death ,  and no weapon better than your swords ,  covered with the noblest blood in the world . 
I do beseech ye ,  if you bear me hard ,  Now ,  whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke ,  Fulfill your pleasure . 	I ask you ,  if you have a grudge against me ,  to kill me now ,  while your stained hands still reek of blood . 
live a thousand years ,  I shall not find myself so apt to die . 	I could live a thousand years and I wouldn’t be as ready to die as I am now . 
no place will please me so ,  no mean of death ,  As here by Caesar ,  and by you cut off ,  The choice and master spirits of this age . 	there’s no place I’d rather die than here by Caesar ,  and no manner of death would please me more than being stabbed by you ,  the masters of this new era . 
o Antony ,  beg not your death of us . 	oh ,  Antony ,  don’t beg us to kill you . 
they are pitiful . 	they are full of pity for Caesar . 
and pity to the general wrong of Rome— As fire drives out fire ,  so pity pity— Hath done this deed on Caesar . 	but a stronger pity ,  for the wrongs committed against Rome ,  drove out our pity for Caesar ,  as fire drives out fire ,  and so we killed him . 
for your part ,  To you our swords have leaden points ,  Mark Antony . 	for you ,  our swords have blunt edges ,  too dull to harm you ,  Mark Antony . 
our arms in strength of malice and our hearts Of brothers' temper do receive you in With all kind love ,  good thoughts ,  and reverence . 	our arms ,  which can be strong and cruel ,  and our hearts ,  filled with brotherly love ,  embrace you with kind love ,  good thoughts ,  and reverence . 
your voice shall be as strong as any man’s In the disposing of new dignities . 	your vote will be as strong as anyone’s in the reordering of the government . 
only be patient till we have appeased The multitude ,  beside themselves with fear ,  And then we will deliver you the cause ,  Why I ,  that did love Caesar when I struck him ,  Have thus proceeded . 	but just be patient until we’ve calmed the masses ,  who are beside themselves with fear . 
I doubt not of your wisdom . 	I don’t doubt your wisdom . 
let each man render me his bloody hand . 	each of you ,  give me your bloody hand . 
mark Antony— Pardon me ,  Caius Cassius . 	mark Antony— Pardon me ,  Caius Cassius . 
therefore I took your hands ,  but was indeed Swayed from the point by looking down on Caesar . 	I took your hands in friendship ,  but ,  indeed ,  I was distracted when I looked down at Caesar . 
friends am I with you all and love you all Upon this hope: that you shall give me reasons Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous . 	I am friends with you all and love you all ,  on one condition—that you prove to me that Caesar was dangerous . 
our reasons are so full of good regard That were you ,  Antony ,  the son of Caesar ,  You should be satisfied . 	our reasons are so well considered that even if you ,  Antony ,  were Caesar’s son ,  you would be satisfied with them . 
you shall ,  Mark Antony . 	you may ,  Mark Antony . 
brutus ,  a word with you . 	brutus ,  may I have a word with you ? 
It shall advantage more than do us wrong . 	It’ll help us more than hurt us . 
mark Antony ,  here ,  take you Caesar’s body . 	mark Antony ,  take Caesar’s body . 
you shall not in your funeral speech blame us ,  But speak all good you can devise of Caesar ,  And say you do ’t by our permission . 	you will not blame us in your funeral speech ,  but will say all the good you want to about Caesar and that you do it by our permission . 
and you shall speak In the same pulpit whereto I am going ,  After my speech is ended . 	and you’ll speak on the same platform as I do ,  after I’m done . 
be it so . 	so be it . 
I do desire no more . 	I don’t want anything more . 
prepare the body then ,  and follow us . 	prepare the body ,  then ,  and follow us . 
thou art the ruins of the noblest man That ever livèd in the tide of times . 	you are what’s left of the noblest man that ever lived . 
woe to the hand that shed this costly blood ! 	pity the hand that shed this valuable blood . 
over thy wounds now do I prophesy— Which ,  like dumb mouths ,  do ope their ruby lips To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue— A curse shall light upon the limbs of men . 	over your wounds—which ,  like speechless mouths ,  open their red lips ,  as though to beg me to speak—I predict that a curse will fall upon the bodies of men . 
domestic fury and fierce civil strife Shall cumber all the parts of Italy . 	fierce civil war will paralyze all of Italy . 
I do ,  Mark Antony . 	I do ,  Mark Antony . 
caesar did write for him to come to Rome . 	caesar wrote for him to come to Rome . 
he did receive his letters and is coming . 	he received Caesar’s letters ,  and he is coming . 
passion ,  I see ,  is catching ,  for mine eyes ,  Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine ,  Began to water . 	grief seems to be contagious ,  for my eyes ,  seeing the tears in yours ,  began to fill . 
Is thy master coming ? 	Is your master coming ? 
he lies tonight within seven leagues of Rome . 	he rests tonight within twenty - one miles of Rome . 
post back with speed ,  and tell him what hath chanced . 	report back to him fast and tell him what has happened . 
thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse Into the marketplace . 	don’t go back until I’ve carried the corpse into the marketplace . 
lend me your hand . 	help me here . 
we will be satisfied ! 	we want answers . 
let us be satisfied ! 	give us answers . 
then follow me and give me audience ,  friends . 	then follow me and listen to my speech ,  friends . 
cassius ,  go you into the other street And part the numbers . 	cassius ,  go to the next street and divide the crowd . 
those that will hear me speak ,  let 'em stay here . 	let those who will hear me speak stay . 
those that will follow Cassius ,  go with him ,  And public reasons shall be renderèd Of Caesar’s death . 	lead those away who will follow you ,  and we’ll explain publicly the reasons for Caesar’s death . 
I will hear Brutus speak . 	I’ll listen to Brutus . 
I will hear Cassius and compare their reasons When severally we hear them renderèd . 	I’ll listen to Cassius ,  and we will compare their reasons . 
the noble Brutus is ascended . 	noble Brutus has mounted the platform . 
be patient till the last . 	be patient until I finish . 
romans ,  countrymen ,  and lovers ! 	romans ,  countrymen ,  and friends ! 
hear me for my cause ,  and be silent that you may hear . 	listen to my reasons and be silent so you can hear . 
believe me for mine honor ,  and have respect to mine honor that you may believe . 	believe me on my honor and keep my honor in mind ,  so you may believe me . 
censure me in your wisdom ,  and awake your senses that you may the better judge . 	be wise when you criticize me and keep your minds alert so you can judge me fairly . 
If there be any in this assembly ,  any dear friend of Caesar’s ,  to him I say that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his . 	If there’s anyone in this assembly ,  any dear friend of Caesar’s ,  I say to him that my love for Caesar was no less than his . 
If then that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar ,  this is my answer: not that I loved Caesar less ,  but that I loved Rome more . 	If ,  then ,  that friend demands to know why I rose up against Caesar ,  this is my answer: it’s not that I loved Caesar less ,  but that I loved Rome more . 
had you rather Caesar were living and die all slaves ,  than that Caesar were dead ,  to live all free men ? 	would you rather that Caesar were living and we would all go to our graves as slaves ,  or that Caesar were dead and we all lived as free men ? 
as Caesar loved me ,  I weep for him . 	I weep for Caesar in that he was good to me . 
as he was fortunate ,  I rejoice at it . 	I rejoice in his good fortune . 
as he was valiant ,  I honor him . 	I honor him for being brave . 
but ,  as he was ambitious ,  I slew him . 	but his ambition—for that ,  I killed him . 
there is tears for his love ,  joy for his fortune ,  honor for his valor ,  and death for his ambition . 	there are tears for his love ,  joy for his fortune ,  honor for his bravery ,  and death for his ambition . 
who is here so base that would be a bondman ? 	who here is so low that he wants to be a slave ? 
If any ,  speak—for him have I offended . 	If there are any ,  speak ,  for it is he whom I’ve offended . 
who is here so rude that would not be a Roman ? 	who here is so barbarous that he doesn’t want to be a Roman ? 
If any ,  speak—for him have I offended . 	If there are any ,  speak ,  for it is he whom I’ve offended . 
who is here so vile that will not love his country ? 	who here is so vile that he doesn’t love his country ? 
If any ,  speak—for him have I offended . 	If there are any ,  speak ,  for it is he whom I have offended . 
I pause for a reply . 	I will pause for a reply . 
none ,  Brutus ,  none . 	no one ,  Brutus ,  no one . 
then none have I offended . 	then I have offended no one . 
I have done no more to Caesar than you shall do to Brutus . 	I’ve done no more to Caesar than you will do to me . 
the question of his death is enrolled in the Capitol . 	the reasons for his death are recorded in the Capitol . 
his glory not extenuated wherein he was worthy ,  nor his offenses enforced for which he suffered death . 	his glory has not been diminished where he earned it ,  nor have those offenses for which he was killed been exaggerated . 
here comes his body ,  mourned by Mark Antony ,  who ,  though he had no hand in his death ,  shall receive the benefit of his dying—a place in the commonwealth—as which of you shall not ? 	here comes his body ,  mourned by Mark Antony ,  who ,  though he had no part in the killing ,  will benefit from his death—receiving a share in the commonwealth ,  as you all will . 
live ,  Brutus ! 	live ,  Brutus ! 
live ,  live ! 	live ,  live ! 
bring him with triumph home unto his house ! 	let’s carry him in triumph to his house ! 
I am not gamesome . 	I don’t like sports . 
I do lack some part Of that quick spirit that is in Antony . 	I’m not competitive like Antony . 
let me not hinder ,  Cassius ,  your desires . 	but don’t let me keep you from going ,  Cassius . 
I’ll leave you . 	I’ll go my own way . 
cassius ,  Be not deceived . 	cassius ,  don’t take it badly . 
tell me ,  good Brutus ,  can you see your face ? 	tell me ,  good Brutus ,  can you see your face ? 
let him be Caesar ! 	let him become Caesar ! 
caesar’s better parts Shall be crowned in Brutus ! 	caesar’s better qualities exist in Brutus ,  and we will crown him . 
we’ll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors . 	we’ll bring him to his house with shouts and celebration ! 
my countrymen—     Peace ,  silence ! 	my countrymen— Silence ! 
brutus speaks . 	brutus speaks . 
peace ,  ho ! 	quiet there ! 
good countrymen ,  let me depart alone . 	good countrymen ,  let me leave alone . 
I do entreat you ,  not a man depart ,  Save I alone ,  till Antony have spoke . 	I ask that none of you leave ,  except myself ,  until Antony has finished . 
let him go up into the public chair . 	let him mount the pulpit . 
we’ll hear him . —Noble Antony ,  go up . 	we’ll listen to him . 
for Brutus' sake ,  I am beholding to you . 	for Brutus’s sake ,  I am indebted to you . 
what does he say of Brutus ? 	what does he say about Brutus ? 
he says for Brutus' sake He finds himself beholding to us all . 	he says that for Brutus’s sake he finds himself indebted to us all . 
twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here . 	he’d better not speak badly of Brutus here . 
this Caesar was a tyrant . 	caesar was a tyrant . 
nay ,  that’s certain . 	that’s for sure . 
we are blest that Rome is rid of him . 	we’re lucky that Rome is rid of him . 
peace ! 	quiet ! 
let us hear what Antony can say . 	let’s hear what Antony has to say . 
you gentle Romans—     Peace ,  ho ! 	you gentle Romans— Quiet there ! 
let us hear him . 	let us hear him . 
friends ,  Romans ,  countrymen ,  lend me your ears . 	friends ,  Romans ,  countrymen ,  give me your attention . 
I come to bury Caesar ,  not to praise him . 	I have come here to bury Caesar ,  not to praise him . 
the evil that men do lives after them; The good is oft interrèd with their bones . 	the evil that men do is remembered after their deaths ,  but the good is often buried with them . 
so let it be with Caesar . 	It might as well be the same with Caesar . 
the noble Brutus Hath told you Caesar was ambitious . 	the noble Brutus told you that Caesar was ambitious . 
If it were so ,  it was a grievous fault ,  And grievously hath Caesar answered it . 	If that’s true ,  it’s a serious fault ,  and Caesar has paid seriously for it . 
here ,  under leave of Brutus and the rest— For Brutus is an honorable man; So are they all ,  all honorable men— Come I to speak in Caesar’s funeral . 	with the permission of Brutus and the others—for Brutus is an honorable man; they are all honorable men—I have come here to speak at Caesar’s funeral . 
he was my friend ,  faithful and just to me . 	he was my friend ,  he was faithful and just to me . 
but Brutus says he was ambitious ,  And Brutus is an honorable man . 	but Brutus says he was ambitious ,  and Brutus is an honorable man . 
he hath brought many captives home to Rome Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill . 	he brought many captives home to Rome whose ransoms brought wealth to the city . 
did this in Caesar seem ambitious ? 	Is this the work of an ambitious man ? 
when that the poor have cried ,  Caesar hath wept . 	when the poor cried ,  Caesar cried too . 
ambition should be made of sterner stuff . 	ambition shouldn’t be so soft . 
yet Brutus says he was ambitious ,  And Brutus is an honorable man . 	yet Brutus says he was ambitious ,  and Brutus is an honorable man . 
you all did see that on the Lupercal I thrice presented him a kingly crown ,  Which he did thrice refuse . 	you all saw that on the Lupercal feast day I offered him a king’s crown three times ,  and he refused it three times . 
was this ambition ? 	was this ambition ? 
I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke ,  But here I am to speak what I do know . 	I am not here to disprove what Brutus has said ,  but to say what  I think there’s a lot of sense in what he says . 
If thou consider rightly of the matter ,  Caesar has had great wrong . 	If you think about it correctly ,  Caesar has suffered a great wrong . 
has he ,  masters ? 	has he ,  sirs ? 
he would not take the crown . 	caesar wouldn’t take the crown . 
therefore ’tis certain he was not ambitious . 	therefore it’s certain that he wasn’t ambitious . 
If it be found so ,  some will dear abide it . 	If it turns out he wasn’t ,  certain people are going to get it . 
poor soul ! 	poor man ! 
his eyes are red as fire with weeping . 	antony’s eyes are fiery red from crying . 
there’s not a nobler man in Rome than Antony . 	there isn’t a nobler man than Antony in all of Rome . 
but yesterday the word of Caesar might Have stood against the world . 	only yesterday the word of Caesar might have stood against the world . 
now lies he there ,  And none so poor to do him reverence . 	now he lies there worth nothing ,  and no one is so humble as to show him respect . 
o masters ,  if I were disposed to stir Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage ,  I should do Brutus wrong ,  and Cassius wrong— Who ,  you all know ,  are honorable men . 	oh ,  sirs ,  if I stirred your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage ,  I would offend Brutus and Cassius ,  who ,  you all know ,  are honorable men . 
I will not do them wrong . 	I will not do them wrong . 
I rather choose To wrong the dead ,  to wrong myself and you ,  Than I will wrong such honorable men . 	I would rather wrong the dead ,  and wrong myself and you ,  than wrong such honorable men . 
but here’s a parchment with the seal of Caesar . 	but here’s a paper with Caesar’s seal on it . 
let but the commons hear this testament— Which ,  pardon me ,  I do not mean to read— And they would go and kiss dead Caesar’s wounds And dip their napkins in his sacred blood ,  Yea ,  beg a hair of him for memory ,  And ,  dying ,  mention it within their wills ,  Bequeathing it as a rich legacy Unto their issue . 	If you could only hear this testament—which ,  excuse me ,  I don’t intend to read aloud—you would kiss dead Caesar’s wounds and dip your handkerchiefs in his sacred blood ,  and beg for a lock of hair to remember him by . 
we’ll hear the will . 	we want to hear the will . 
read it ,  Mark Antony ! 	read it ,  Mark Antony . 
the will ,  the will ! 	the will ,  the will ! 
we will hear Caesar’s will . 	we want to hear Caesar’s will . 
It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you . 	It isn’t proper for you to know how much Caesar loved you . 
you are not wood ,  you are not stones ,  but men . 	you aren’t wood ,  you aren’t stones—you’re men . 
and ,  being men ,  bearing the will of Caesar ,  It will inflame you ,  it will make you mad . 	and ,  being men ,  the contents of Caesar’s will would enrage you . 
read the will . 	read the will . 
we’ll hear it ,  Antony . 	we want to hear it ,  Antony . 
you shall read us the will ,  Caesar’s will . 	you have to read us the will ,  Caesar’s will . 
will you be patient ? 	will you be patient ? 
will you stay awhile ? 	will you wait awhile ? 
I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it . 	I’ve said too much in telling you of it . 
I fear I wrong the honorable men Whose daggers have stabbed Caesar . 	I’m afraid that I wrong the honorable men whose daggers have stabbed Caesar . 
they were traitors ! 	they were traitors . 
the testament ! 	the testament ! 
they were villains ,  murderers . 	they were villains ,  murderers . 
the will ! 	the will ! 
read the will ! 	read the will ! 
you will compel me ,  then ,  to read the will ? 	you force me to read the will ,  then ? 
then make a ring about the corpse of Caesar ,  And let me show you him that made the will . 	then make a circle around Caesar’s corpse ,  and let me show you the man who made this will . 
shall I descend ? 	shall I come down ? 
and will you give me leave ? 	will you let me ? 
come down . 	come down . 
descend . 	descend . 
you shall have leave . 	we’ll let you . 
stand from the hearse . 	stand away from the hearse . 
stand from the body . 	stand away from the body . 
room for Antony ,  most noble Antony ! 	make room for Antony ,  most noble Antony ! 
nay ,  press not so upon me . 	no ,  don’t press up against me . 
stand far off . 	stand further away . 
stand back . 	stand back . 
room ! 	give him room . 
If you have tears ,  prepare to shed them now . 	If you have tears ,  prepare to shed them now . 
you all do know this mantle . 	you all know this cloak . 
I remember The first time ever Caesar put it on . 	I remember the first time Caesar ever put it on . 
twas on a summer’s evening in his tent ,  That day he overcame the Nervii . 	It was the day he overcame the Nervii warriors . 
look ,  in this place ran Cassius' dagger through . 	look ,  here’s where Cassius’s dagger pierced it . 
see what a rent the envious Casca made . 	see the wound that Casca made . 
for Brutus ,  as you know ,  was Caesar’s angel . 	for Brutus ,  as you know ,  was Caesar’s angel . 
judge ,  O you gods ,  how dearly Caesar loved him ! 	the gods know how dearly Caesar loved him ! 
this was the most unkindest cut of all . 	this was the most unkind cut of all . 
then burst his mighty heart ,  And ,  in his mantle muffling up his face ,  Even at the base of Pompey’s statue ,  Which all the while ran blood ,  great Caesar fell . 	and at the base of Pompey’s statue ,  with his cloak covering his face ,  which was dripping with blood the whole time ,  great Caesar fell . 
o ,  what a fall was there ,  my countrymen ! 	oh ,  what a fall it was ,  my countrymen ! 
then I ,  and you ,  and all of us fell down ,  Whilst bloody treason flourished over us . 	then you and I and all of us fell down ,  while bloody treason triumphed . 
oh ,  now you weep ,  and ,  I perceive ,  you feel The dint of pity . 	oh ,  now you weep ,  and I sense that you feel pity . 
these are gracious drops . 	these are gracious tears . 
kind souls ,  what ,  weep you when you but behold Our Caesar’s vesture wounded ? 	but if it overwhelms you to look at Caesar’s wounded cloak ,  how will you feel ,  kind men ,  now ? 
look you here ,  Here is himself ,  marred ,  as you see ,  with traitors . 	look at this ,  here is the man—scarred ,  as you can see ,  by traitors . 
o piteous spectacle ! 	oh ,  what a sad sight ! 
o noble Caesar ! 	oh ,  noble Caesar ! 
o woeful day ! 	oh ,  sad day ! 
o traitors ,  villains ! 	oh ,  traitors ,  villains ! 
o most bloody sight ! 	oh ,  most bloody sight ! 
about ! 	revenge ! 
seek ! 	seek ! 
burn ! 	burn ! 
fire ! 	set fire ! 
kill ! 	kill ! 
slay ! 	slay ! 
stay ,  countrymen . 	wait ,  countrymen . 
peace there ! 	quiet there ! 
hear the noble Antony . 	listen to the noble Antony . 
they that have done this deed are honorable . 	those who have done this deed are honorable . 
what private griefs they have ,  alas ,  I know not ,  That made them do it . 	I don’t know what private grudges they had that made them do it . 
they are wise and honorable ,  And will ,  no doubt ,  with reasons answer you . 	they’re wise and honorable ,  and will no doubt give you reasons for it . 
I come not ,  friends ,  to steal away your hearts . 	I haven’t come to steal your loyalty ,  friends . 
for I have neither wit nor words nor worth ,  Action nor utterance nor the power of speech ,  To stir men’s blood . 	I have neither cleverness nor rhetorical skill nor the authority nor gesture nor eloquence nor the power of speech to stir men up . 
I only speak right on . 	I just speak directly . 
but were I Brutus ,  And Brutus Antony ,  there were an Antony Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue In every wound of Caesar that should move The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny . 	but if I were Brutus and Brutus were me ,  then I’d stir you up ,  and install in each of Caesar’s wounds the kind of voice that could convince even stones to rise up and mutiny . 
we’ll mutiny . 	we’ll mutiny . 
we’ll burn the house of Brutus . 	we’ll burn Brutus’s house . 
away ,  then ! 	let’s go ,  then ! 
come ,  seek the conspirators . 	come ,  find the conspirators ! 
yet hear me ,  countrymen . 	wait ,  and listen to me ,  countrymen . 
yet hear me speak . 	quiet ! 
peace ,  ho ! 	wait ! 
hear Antony . 	listen to Antony . 
most noble Antony ! 	most noble Antony ! 
why ,  friends ,  you go to do you know not what . 	why ,  friends ,  you don’t even know what you’re doing yet . 
wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves ? 	what has Caesar done to deserve your love ? 
alas ,  you know not . 	alas ,  you don’t know . 
I must tell you then . 	I must tell you then . 
you have forgot the will I told you of . 	you’ve forgotten the will I told you about . 
most true . 	yes ! 
the will ! 	the will ! 
let’s stay and hear the will . 	let’s stay and hear the will ! 
most noble Caesar ! 	most noble Caesar ! 
we’ll revenge his death . 	we’ll revenge his death . 
o royal Caesar ! 	oh ,  royal Caesar ! 
hear me with patience . 	listen to me patiently . 
peace ,  ho ! 	quiet ,  there ! 
moreover ,  he hath left you all his walks ,  His private arbors and new - planted orchards ,  On this side Tiber . 	also ,  he’s left you all his walkways—in his private gardens and newly planted orchards—on this side of the Tiber River . 
he hath left them you And to your heirs forever—common pleasures ,  To walk abroad and recreate yourselves . 	he’s left them to you and to your heirs forever—public pleasures in which you will be able to stroll and relax . 
here was a Caesar ! 	here was a Caesar ! 
when comes such another ? 	when will there be another like him ? 
we’ll burn his body in the holy place ,  And with the brands fire the traitors' houses . 	we’ll burn his body in the holy place and use the brands to set the traitors' houses on fire . 
take up the body . 	take up the body . 
go fetch fire . 	we’ll start a fire . 
now let it work . 	now ,  let it work . 
how now ,  fellow ? 	what’s up ,  my man ? 
sir ,  Octavius is already come to Rome . 	sir ,  Octavius has already arrived in Rome . 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
he and Lepidus are at Caesar’s house . 	he and Lepidus are at Caesar’s house . 
and thither will I straight to visit him . 	I will go straight to visit him . 
he comes upon a wish . 	I ask for him ,  and he comes . 
fortune is merry ,  And in this mood will give us anything . 	fortune is happy today and ,  in this mood ,  will give us anything we want . 
I heard him say ,  Brutus and Cassius Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome . 	I heard Octavius say that Brutus and Cassius have ridden like madmen through the gates of Rome . 
belike they had some notice of the people How I had moved them . 	they probably received warning about how much I stirred up the people . 
bring me to Octavius . 	take me to Octavius . 
tis just . 	that’s true . 
and it is very much lamented ,  Brutus ,  That you have no such mirrors as will turn Your hidden worthiness into your eye That you might see your shadow . 	and it’s too bad ,  Brutus ,  that you don’t have any mirrors that could display your hidden excellence to yourself . 
I have heard Where many of the best respect in Rome ,  Except immortal Caesar ,  speaking of Brutus And groaning underneath this age’s yoke ,  Have wished that noble Brutus had his eyes . 	I’ve heard many of the noblest Romans—next to immortal Caesar—speaking of you ,  complaining of the tyranny of today’s government ,  and wishing that your eyes were working better . 
Into what dangers would you lead me ,  Cassius ,  That you would have me seek into myself For that which is not in me ? 	what dangers are you trying to lead me into ,  Cassius ,  that you want me to look inside myself for something that’s not there ? 
therefore ,  good Brutus ,  be prepared to hear . 	I’ll tell you ,  good Brutus . 
and since you know you cannot see yourself So well as by reflection ,  I ,  your glass ,  Will modestly discover to yourself That of yourself which you yet know not of . 	and since you know you can see yourself best by reflection ,  I’ll be your mirror and show you ,  without exaggeration ,  things inside you that you can’t see . 
and be not jealous on me ,  gentle Brutus . 	and don’t be suspicious of me ,  noble Brutus . 
were I a common laugher ,  or did use To stale with ordinary oaths my love To every new protester ,  if you know That I do fawn on men and hug them hard And ,  after ,  scandal them ,  or if you know That I profess myself in banqueting To all the rout ,  then hold me dangerous . 	If I were your average fool ,  or if I made my feelings for you worthless by making the same promises of friendship to everybody ,  or if you’d seen me first flattering men ,  hugging them tightly ,  and later slandering them behind their backs ,  or if you hear that I drunkenly declare friendship at banquets with all the rabble ,  only then ,  of course ,  go ahead and assume I’m dangerous . 
what means this shouting ? 	why are they shouting ? 
I do fear ,  the people Choose Caesar for their king . 	I’m afraid the people have made Caesar their king . 
ay ,  do you fear it ? 	really ,  are you afraid of that ? 
then must I think you would not have it so . 	then I have to assume you don’t want him to be king . 
I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Caesar ,  And things unlucky charge my fantasy . 	I dreamed last night that I feasted with Caesar ,  and unlucky signs overwhelmed my imagination . 
I have no will to wander forth of doors ,  Yet something leads me forth . 	I have no desire to go outside ,  yet something leads me there . 
what is your name ? 	what’s your name ? 
whither are you going ? 	where are you going ? 
where do you dwell ? 	where do you live ? 
are you a married man or a bachelor ? 	are you a married man or a bachelor ? 
answer every man directly . 	answer all of us ,  now . 
ay ,  and briefly . 	yes ,  and be brief . 
ay ,  and wisely . 	yes ,  and be wise . 
what is my name ? 	what’s my name ? 
whither am I going ? 	where am I going ? 
where do I dwell ? 	where do I live ? 
am I a married man or a bachelor ? 	am I a married man or a bachelor ? 
then ,  to answer every man directly and briefly ,  wisely and truly—wisely I say ,  I am a bachelor . 	then ,  to answer every man briefly ,  wisely ,  and truthfully—wisely I say ,  I am a bachelor . 
that’s as much as to say they are fools that marry . 	you imply that married men are fools . 
you’ll bear me a bang for that ,  I fear . 	you’ll get a blow from me for that ,  I think . 
directly ,  I am going to Caesar’s funeral . 	right this instant ,  I’m going to Caesar’s funeral . 
as a friend or an enemy ? 	as a friend or an enemy ? 
as a friend . 	as a friend . 
briefly ,  I dwell by the Capitol . 	getting right to the point ,  I live near the Capitol . 
your name ,  sir ,  truly . 	tell us your name ,  sir ,  truthfully . 
truly ,  my name is Cinna . 	truthfully ,  my name is Cinna . 
tear him to pieces . 	tear him to pieces . 
he’s a conspirator . 	he’s a conspirator . 
I am not Cinna the conspirator . 	I’m not Cinna the conspirator . 
It is no matter . 	It doesn’t matter . 
his name’s Cinna . 	his name’s Cinna . 
pluck but his name out of his heart and turn him going . 	pull only his name out of his heart and let him go . 
tear him ,  tear him ! 	tear him apart ,  tear him up ! 
come ,  brands ,  ho ,  firebrands . 	come ,  firebrands ,  over here ! 
to Brutus' ,  to Cassius' ,  burn all . 	to Brutus’s ,  to Cassius’s ,  let’s burn them all . 
some to Decius' house and some to Casca’s . 	some of you go to Decius’s house and some to Casca’s . 
some to Ligarius' . 	some to Ligarius’s . 
away ,  go ! 	go ! 
these many ,  then ,  shall die . 	these ones ,  then ,  will be assassinated . 
their names are pricked . 	their names are marked . 
I do consent—    Prick him down ,  Antony . 	I agree— Put a mark next to his name too ,  Antony . 
upon condition Publius shall not live ,  Who is your sister’s son ,  Mark Antony . 	on the condition that your sister’s son ,  Publius ,  also must die ,  Mark Antony . 
he shall not live . 	he will die . 
look ,  with a spot I damn him . 	see—I’ve sealed his fate with this mark next to his name . 
but ,  Lepidus ,  go you to Caesar’s house . 	but ,  Lepidus ,  go to Caesar’s house . 
fetch the will hither ,  and we shall determine How to cut off some charge in legacies . 	bring his will here ,  and we’ll figure out a way to reduce his bequests to the people . 
what ,  shall I find you here ? 	will you be here when I return ? 
or here ,  or at the Capitol . 	either here or at the Capitol . 
this is a slight ,  unmeritable man ,  Meet to be sent on errands . 	he’s an unremarkable man ,  fit only to be sent on errands . 
Is it fit ,  The threefold world divided ,  he should stand One of the three to share it ? 	does it really make sense ,  once we divide the world into three parts ,  that he should be one of the three rulers ? 
octavius ,  I have seen more days than you . 	octavius ,  I’m older than you are . 
and though we lay these honors on this man To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads ,  He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold ,  To groan and sweat under the business ,  Either led or driven ,  as we point the way . 	and although we’re giving these honors to this man so that he shares some of the blame for what we’re doing ,  he’ll carry these honors like a jackass carries gold—groaning and sweating under the load ,  either led or pushed ,  as we direct him . 
and having brought our treasure where we will ,  Then take we down his load and turn him off ,  Like to the empty ass ,  to shake his ears And graze in commons . 	once he’s carried our treasure where we want it ,  we’ll free him of the load and turn him loose like a jackass ,  to shake his ears and graze in the public pastures . 
you may do your will ,  But he’s a tried and valiant soldier . 	you can do what you want ,  but he’s an experienced and honorable soldier . 
so is my horse ,  Octavius ,  and for that I do appoint him store of provender . 	so is my horse ,  Octavius ,  and for that reason I give him all the hay he wants . 
stand ,  ho ! 	stop . 
give the word ,  ho ,  and stand . 	pass on the command to halt ! 
what now ,  Lucillius ? 	what’s happening now ,  Lucillius ? 
Is Cassius near ? 	Is Cassius nearby ? 
he is at hand ,  and Pindarus is come To do you salutation from his master . 	he’s nearby ,  and Pindarus has come to salute you on behalf of his master . 
but if he be at hand I shall be satisfied . 	If he’s nearby ,  I want an explanation . 
he is not doubted . —A word ,  Lucillius . 	can I have a word with you ,  Lucillius ? 
but not with such familiar instances Nor with such free and friendly conference As he hath used of old . 	he received me with courtesy and sufficient respect ,  but not with affection ,  nor with as much open and friendly conversation as he once greeted me . 
thou hast described A hot friend cooling . 	you’ve described a warm friend who’s cooling off . 
there are no tricks in plain and simple faith . 	plain and simple loyalty doesn’t make anyone act phony . 
but hollow men ,  like horses hot at hand ,  Make gallant show and promise of their mettle . 	but insincere men ,  like horses who are too lively at the start of a race ,  make a big show of their spirit . 
but when they should endure the bloody spur ,  They fall their crests and ,  like deceitful jades ,  Sink in the trial . 	but when push comes to shove ,  they droop like those horses that are all show and slow to a crawl . 
comes his army on ? 	Is his army approaching ? 
they mean this night in Sardis to be quartered . 	they plan to spend the night in Sardis . 
the greater part ,  the horse in general ,  Are come with Cassius . 	the larger part ,  the main body of cavalry ,  are coming with Cassius . 
hark ! 	look ! 
he is arrived . 	he’s arrived . 
march gently on to meet him . 	march to meet him at a dignified pace . 
stand ,  ho ! 	halt . 
stand ,  ho ! 	halt ! 
speak the word along . 	pass the order along . 
stand ! 	halt ! 
stand ! 	halt ! 
stand ! 	halt ! 
most noble brother ,  you have done me wrong . 	most noble brother ,  you have done me wrong . 
judge me ,  you gods ! 	let the gods judge me ! 
wrong I mine enemies ? 	do I mistreat even my enemies ? 
and when you do them—     Cassius ,  be content . 	and when you do— Cassius ,  calm down . 
before the eyes of both our armies here ,  Which should perceive nothing but love from us ,  Let us not wrangle . 	let’s not argue here in front of both our armies ,  which ought to see nothing but love between us . 
bid them move away . 	order them to move back . 
then in my tent ,  Cassius ,  enlarge your griefs ,  And I will give you audience . 	then ,  in my tent ,  you can elaborate on your complaints ,  and I’ll listen . 
pindarus ,  Bid our commanders lead their charges off A little from this ground . 	pindarus ,  order our commanders to lead their charges a little ways away from this ground . 
let Lucius and Titinius guard our door . 	have Lucius and Titinius guard the door . 
that you have wronged me doth appear in this: You have condemned and noted Lucius Pella For taking bribes here of the Sardians ,  Wherein my letters ,  praying on his side Because I knew the man ,  were slighted off . 	my evidence that you have wronged me is that you condemned and disgraced Lucius Pella for taking bribes here from the Sardinians ,  and you ignored my letters ,  where I argued that he was innocent; I know the man . 
you wronged yourself to write in such a case . 	you wronged yourself to write on behalf of such a man . 
In such a time as this it is not meet That every nice offense should bear his comment . 	In a time like this ,  it doesn’t make sense to criticize every offense . 
let me tell you ,  Cassius ,  you yourself Are much condemned to have an itching palm ,  To sell and mart your offices for gold To undeservers . 	I’ll tell you ,  Cassius ,  you yourself have been called greedy and been accused of giving your positions to undeserving men in exchange for gold . 
I  “ an itching palm ”  ! 	me ,   “ greedy ”  ! 
you know that you are Brutus that speak this ,  Or ,  by the gods ,  this speech were else your last . 	you know ,  if you were anyone other than Brutus ,  that speech would be your last . 
the name of Cassius honors this corruption ,  And chastisement doth therefore hide his head . 	the name of Cassius gives credit to these corrupt actions ,  and so they go unpunished . 
chastisement ! 	unpunished ! 
remember March ,  the ides of March remember . 	remember March ,  March 15th . 
did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake ? 	didn’t great Caesar bleed for the sake of justice ? 
what villain touched his body ,  that did stab ,  And not for justice ? 	who among us stabbed him for any cause but justice ? 
what ,  shall one of us That struck the foremost man of all this world But for supporting robbers ,  shall we now Contaminate our fingers with base bribes ,  And sell the mighty space of our large honors For so much trash as may be graspèd thus ? 	should we now dirty our fingers with lowly bribes and sell the mighty offices that we hold for whatever money we can get our hands on ? 
I had rather be a dog and bay the moon Than such a Roman . 	I’d rather be a dog and howl at the moon than be that kind of Roman . 
brutus ,  bait not me . 	brutus ,  do not provoke me . 
I’ll not endure it . 	I will not take it . 
you forget yourself To hedge me in . 	you’re forgetting yourself when you back me into a corner . 
I am a soldier ,  I ,  Older in practice ,  abler than yourself To make conditions . 	I’m a soldier ,  more experienced than you ,  and better able to give orders . 
go to . 	get lost ! 
you are not ,  Cassius . 	you are not ,  Cassius . 
I am . 	I am . 
I say you are not . 	I say you’re not . 
urge me no more ,  I shall forget myself . 	don’t provoke me any further or I’ll forget to restrain myself . 
have mind upon your health ,  tempt me no further . 	If you care about your health ,  you won’t push me any further . 
away ,  slight man ! 	leave ,  you little man . 
Is ’t possible ? 	Is this possible ? 
hear me ,  for I will speak . 	listen to me ,  for I have something to tell you . 
shall I be frighted when a madman stares ? 	does a madman scare me when he stares at me ? 
but wherefore do you hold me here so long ? 	but why do you keep me here so long ? 
what is it that you would impart to me ? 	what do you want to tell me ? 
I know that virtue to be in you ,  Brutus ,  As well as I do know your outward favor . 	I know this quality in you ,  Brutus—it’s as familiar to me as your face . 
well ,  honor is the subject of my story . 	Indeed ,  honor is what I want to talk to you about . 
I cannot tell what you and other men Think of this life ,  but ,  for my single self ,  I had as lief not be as live to be In awe of such a thing as I myself . 	I don’t know what you and other men think of this life ,  but as for me ,  I’d rather not live at all than live to worship a man as ordinary as myself . 
I was born free as Caesar . 	I was born as free as Caesar . 
so were you . 	so were you . 
we both have fed as well ,  and we can both Endure the winter’s cold as well as he . 	we both have eaten as well ,  and we can both endure the cold winter as well as he . 
for once upon a raw and gusty day ,  The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores ,  Caesar said to me ,   “ Darest thou ,  Cassius ,  now Leap in with me into this angry flood And swim to yonder point ?  ”  Upon the word ,  Accoutred as I was ,  I plungèd in And bade him follow . 	once ,  on a cold and windy day ,  when the river Tiber was crashing against its banks ,  Caesar said to me ,   “ Cassius ,  I dare you to jump into this rough water with me and swim to that point there .  ”  As soon as he spoke ,  though I was fully dressed ,  I plunged in and called for him to follow . 
so indeed he did . 	and he did . 
but ere we could arrive the point proposed ,  Caesar cried ,   “ Help me ,  Cassius ,  or I sink !  ”  I ,  as Aeneas ,  our great ancestor ,  Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder The old Anchises bear ,  so from the waves of Tiber Did I the tired Caesar . 	but before we reached the end point ,  Caesar cried ,   “ Help me ,  Cassius ,  or I will sink !  ”  And just as Aeneas ,  the hero who founded Rome ,  emerged from the fires of Troy with his elderly father Anchises on his shoulder ,  so I emerged from the Tiber carrying the tired Caesar . 
all this ”  ? 	all this ”  ? 
ay ,  more . 	yes ,  and more . 
fret till your proud heart break . 	go ahead—rage till your proud heart breaks . 
go show your slaves how choleric you are And make your bondmen tremble . 	show your slaves how mad you are ,  and make your servants tremble . 
Is it come to this ? 	has it come to this ? 
you say you are a better soldier . 	you say you’re a better soldier . 
let it appear so . 	show it ! 
make your vaunting true ,  And it shall please me well . 	make your boasts come true ,  and I’ll be thrilled . 
for mine own part ,  I shall be glad to learn of noble men . 	I’m always happy to hear about brave men . 
you wrong me every way . 	you wrong me in every way . 
you wrong me ,  Brutus . 	you wrong me ,  Brutus . 
when Caesar lived ,  he durst not thus have moved me . 	when Caesar was alive ,  even he wouldn’t dare anger me like this . 
peace ,  peace ! 	oh ,  be quiet . 
you durst not so have tempted him . 	you wouldn’t have dared to tempt him so . 
I durst not ! 	I wouldn’t have dared ! 
no . 	no . 
for your life you durst not . 	you wouldn’t have dared ,  out of fear for your life . 
do not presume too much upon my love . 	don’t take my love for granted . 
I may do that I shall be sorry for . 	I might do something I’ll be sorry for . 
you have done that you should be sorry for . 	you’ve already done something you should be sorry for . 
there is no terror ,  Cassius ,  in your threats ,  For I am armed so strong in honesty That they pass by me as the idle wind ,  Which I respect not . 	your threats don’t scare me ,  Cassius ,  because I’m so secure in my honesty and integrity that they pass me by like a weak breeze . 
I did send To you for gold to pay my legions ,  Which you denied me . 	I asked you for gold to pay my soldiers ,  and you wouldn’t give it to me . 
was that done like Cassius ? 	was that the Caius Cassius that I knew ? 
should I have answered Caius Cassius so ? 	and would I have ever done that to you ? 
I denied you not . 	I didn’t refuse you . 
you did . 	you did . 
I did not . 	I didn’t . 
he was but a fool that brought My answer back . 	the man who brought my answer to you was a fool . 
brutus hath rived my heart . 	you have broken my heart . 
a friend should bear his friend’s infirmities ,  But Brutus makes mine greater than they are . 	a friend should put up with his friend’s weaknesses ,  but you exaggerate mine . 
I do not ,  till you practice them on me . 	I don’t until you practice them on me . 
you love me not . 	you don’t love me . 
I do not like your faults . 	I don’t like your faults . 
a friendly eye could never see such faults . 	a friend would never see those faults . 
a flatterer’s would not ,  though they do appear As huge as high Olympus . 	no ,  a flatterer wouldn’t ,  even if the faults were as huge as Mount Olympus . 
oh ,  I could weep My spirit from mine eyes . 	oh ,  I could weep my soul right out of myself ! 
sheathe your dagger . 	there’s my dagger  Put away your dagger . 
be angry when you will ,  it shall have scope . 	be angry whenever you like ,  it’s all right with me . 
do what you will ,  dishonor shall be humor . 	do whatever you want ,  and I’ll say your insults are just a bad mood . 
when I spoke that ,  I was ill - tempered too . 	when I said that ,  I was angry too . 
do you confess so much ? 	you admit it ,  then ? 
give me your hand . 	give me your hand . 
and my heart too . 	and my heart too . 
o Brutus ! 	oh ,  Brutus ! 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
have not you love enough to bear with me ,  When that rash humor which my mother gave me Makes me forgetful ? 	do you have enough love for me to be patient when my bad temper ,  which I inherited from my mother ,  makes me forget how I should behave ? 
yes ,  Cassius . 	yes ,  Cassius . 
and from henceforth When you are over - earnest with your Brutus ,  He’ll think your mother chides and leave you so . 	and from now on ,  when you get hot with me ,  I’ll assume it’s your mother speaking and leave it at that . 
how now ? 	what’s this ! 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
for shame ,  you generals ! 	you should be ashamed ,  generals ! 
what do you mean ? 	what do you think you’re doing ? 
love ,  and be friends as two such men should be . 	love each other and be friends ,  like two such men should be . 
for I have seen more years ,  I’m sure ,  than ye . 	listen to me ,  because I’m older than you ,  surely . 
bear with him ,  Brutus . 	be patient with him ,  Brutus . 
tis his fashion . 	that’s just how he is . 
I’ll know his humor when he knows his time . 	I’ll humor him when he learns how to behave . 
what should the wars do with these jigging fools ? 	what should we do with all these rhyming fools that follow us from post to post ? 
companion ,  hence ! 	get out of here ,  my friend . 
away ,  away ,  be gone . 	away ,  away ,  be gone . 
lucillius and Titinius ,  bid the commanders Prepare to lodge their companies tonight . 	lucillius and Titinius ,  order the commanders to have the men camp for the night . 
and come yourselves ,  and bring Messala with you ,  Immediately to us . 	and return to us immediately ,  bringing Messala with you . 
I did not think you could have been so angry . 	I didn’t think you could even be so angry . 
o Cassius ,  I am sick of many griefs . 	oh Cassius ,  I’m tired out by many sorrows . 
portia is dead . 	portia is dead . 
ha ,  Portia ? 	portia ! 
she is dead . 	she is dead . 
o insupportable and touching loss ! 	what an irreplaceable and grievous loss ! 
upon what sickness ? 	what sickness did she die of ? 
Impatient of my absence ,  And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony Have made themselves so strong—for with her death That tidings came—with this she fell distract And ,  her attendants absent ,  swallowed fire . 	she was worried about my absence ,  and about the fact that young Octavius and Mark Antony have grown so strong—which I found out at the same time as the news of her death . 
and died so ? 	and that’s how she died ? 
even so . 	yes ,  like that . 
o ye immortal gods ! 	oh ,  immortal gods ! 
my heart is thirsty for that noble pledge . 	my heart is thirsty for that noble promise . 
fill ,  Lucius ,  till the wine o'erswell the cup . 	fill my cup ,  Lucius ,  until the wine overflows it . 
I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love . 	I cannot drink too much of Brutus’s love . 
now sit we close about this taper here And call in question our necessities . 	now let’s sit closely around this candle and discuss our needs . 
portia ,  art thou gone ? 	portia ,  are you really gone ? 
no more ,  I pray you . 	no more about that ,  please . 
messala ,  I have here receivèd letters That young Octavius and Mark Antony Come down upon us with a mighty power ,  Bending their expedition toward Philippi . 	messala ,  I have received these letters explaining that young Octavius and Mark Antony are rushing toward Philippi and bearing down upon us with a mighty power . 
myself have letters of the selfsame tenor . 	I have received letters that say the same . 
with what addition ? 	and anything else ? 
that by proscription and bills of outlawry ,  Octavius ,  Antony ,  and Lepidus Have put to death an hundred senators . 	that with a series of legal writs ,  Octavius ,  Antony ,  and Lepidus have put a hundred senators to death . 
therein our letters do not well agree . 	on that point ,  our letters don’t agree . 
mine speak of seventy senators that died By their proscriptions ,  Cicero being one . 	my letters say only seventy senators were killed ,  one being Cicero . 
cicero one ? 	cicero too ? 
cicero is dead ,  And by that order of proscription . 	cicero is dead ,  by their decree . 
no ,  Messala . 	no ,  Messala . 
nor nothing in your letters writ of her ? 	and you haven’t heard any news about her in your letters ? 
nothing ,  Messala . 	nothing ,  Messala . 
that methinks is strange . 	I think that’s strange . 
why ask you ? 	why do you ask ? 
hear you aught of her in yours ? 	have you heard something of her in your letters ? 
no ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
now ,  as you are a Roman ,  tell me true . 	now ,  as you’re a Roman ,  tell me the truth . 
then like a Roman bear the truth I tell . 	then you must take the truth I have to tell like a Roman . 
for certain she is dead ,  and by strange manner . 	It’s certain that she is dead ,  and she died in a strange way . 
why ,  farewell ,  Portia . 	well ,  good - bye ,  Portia . 
we must die ,  Messala . 	we all must die ,  Messala . 
with meditating that she must die once ,  I have the patience to endure it now . 	having already thought about the fact that she would have to die sometime ,  I can endure her death now . 
even so great men great losses should endure . 	that’s the way great men ought to endure great losses . 
I have as much of this in art as you ,  But yet my nature could not bear it so . 	I’ve practiced Stoicism with as much devotion as you ,  but I still couldn’t bear this news like you do . 
well ,  to our work alive . 	well ,  let’s move on to our work with the living . 
what do you think Of marching to Philippi presently ? 	what do you think of marching to Philippi immediately ? 
I do not think it good . 	I don’t think it’s a good idea . 
your reason ? 	why not ? 
this it is: 'Tis better that the enemy seek us . 	here’s why: it’d be better for the enemy to come after us . 
so shall he waste his means ,  weary his soldiers ,  Doing himself offense ,  whilst we ,  lying still ,  Are full of rest ,  defense ,  and nimbleness . 	that way ,  he’ll waste his provisions and tire out his soldiers ,  weakening his own capacities ,  while we ,  lying still ,  are rested ,  energetic ,  and nimble . 
the enemy ,  marching along by them ,  By them shall make a fuller number up ,  Come on refreshed ,  new - added ,  and encouraged ,  From which advantage shall we cut him off If at Philippi we do face him there ,  These people at our back . 	If we meet him at Philippi ,  these people will be at our backs . 
hear me ,  good brother— Under your pardon . 	listen to me ,  good brother . 
you must note beside ,  That we have tried the utmost of our friends ,  Our legions are brim - full ,  our cause is ripe . 	our regiments are full to the brim; our cause is ready . 
the enemy increaseth every day . 	the enemy gets larger each day . 
we ,  at the height ,  are ready to decline . 	we ,  now at our largest ,  can only decrease . 
on such a full sea are we now afloat ,  And we must take the current when it serves Or lose our ventures . 	It’s on such a high tide that we’re now floating ,  and we must take the current when it is offered ,  or lose our campaign . 
then ,  with your will ,  go on . 	If that’s what you want ,  all right . 
we’ll along ourselves ,  and meet them at Philippi . 	we’ll go forward with you and meet them at Philippi . 
the deep of night is crept upon our talk ,  And nature must obey necessity ,  Which we will niggard with a little rest . 	It’s now late at night ,  and actions must accommodate bodily needs ,  which we’ll satisfy with only a short rest . 
there is no more to say ? 	that’s all there is to say . 
no more . 	there’s nothing else . 
good night . 	good night . 
early tomorrow will we rise and hence . 	we’ll rise and leave early tomorrow . 
lucius ! 	lucius ! 
never come such division ’tween our souls . 	let’s pray that we never come into conflict like that again . 
let it not ,  Brutus . 	let’s not ,  Brutus . 
Is now become a god ,  and Cassius is A wretched creature and must bend his body If Caesar carelessly but nod on him . 	and this is the man who has now become a god ,  and I’m a wretched creature who must bow down if Caesar so much as carelessly nods my way . 
he had a fever when he was in Spain ,  And when the fit was on him ,  I did mark How he did shake . 	In Spain ,  Caesar had a fever ,  and it made him shake . 
tis true ,  this god did shake ! 	It’s true ,  this so - called  “ god ” —he shook . 
his coward lips did from their color fly ,  And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world Did lose his luster . 	his cowardly lips turned white ,  and the same eye whose gaze terrifies the world lost its gleam . 
I did hear him groan ,  Ay ,  and that tongue of his that bade the Romans Mark him and write his speeches in their books—  “ Alas ,  ”  it cried ,   “ give me some drink ,  Titinius ,  ”  As a sick girl . 	I heard him groan—yes ,  I did—and the same tongue that ordered the Romans to obey him and transcribe his speeches in their books cried ,   “ Give me some water ,  Titinius ,  ”  like a sick girl . 
ye gods ,  it doth amaze me A man of such a feeble temper should So get the start of the majestic world And bear the palm alone . 	It astounds me that such a weak man could beat the whole world and carry the trophy of victory alone . 
another general shout ! 	more shouting ! 
I do believe that these applauses are For some new honors that are heaped on Caesar . 	I think this applause is for some new honors awarded to Caesar . 
why ,  man ,  he doth bestride the narrow world Like a Colossus ,  and we petty men Walk under his huge legs and peep about To find ourselves dishonorable graves . 	why ,  Caesar straddles the narrow world like a giant ,  and we petty men walk under his huge legs and look forward only to dying dishonorably ,  as slaves . 
men at some time are masters of their fates . 	men can be masters of their fate . 
the fault ,  dear Brutus ,  is not in our stars But in ourselves ,  that we are underlings . 	It is not destiny’s fault ,  but our own faults ,  that we’re slaves . 
brutus and Caesar—what should be in that  “ Caesar ”  ? 	brutus ”  and  “ Caesar .  ”  What’s so special about  “ Caesar ”  ? 
why should that name be sounded more than yours ? 	why should that name be proclaimed more than yours ? 
write them together ,  yours is as fair a name . 	write them together—yours is just as good a name . 
sound them ,  it doth become the mouth as well . 	pronounce them—it is just as nice to say . 
everything is well . 	everything’s fine . 
good night ,  my lord . 	good night ,  my lord . 
good night ,  good brother . 	good night ,  good brother . 
good night ,  Lord Brutus . 	good night ,  Lord Brutus . 
farewell ,  everyone . 	farewell ,  everyone . 
give me the gown . 	give me the gown . 
where is thy instrument ? 	where’s your lute ? 
here in the tent . 	here in the tent . 
what ,  thou speak’st drowsily ? 	what ,  are you sleepy ? 
call Claudio and some other of my men . 	call Claudio and some of my other men . 
I’ll have them sleep on cushions in my tent . 	I’ll have them sleep on cushions in my tent . 
varrus and Claudio ! 	varrus and Claudio ! 
calls my lord ? 	did you call ,  my lord ? 
I pray you ,  sirs ,  lie in my tent and sleep . 	sirs ,  I ask you to sleep in my tent . 
It may be I shall raise you by and by On business to my brother Cassius . 	I might wake you up in a while to send you on an errand to my brother Cassius . 
so please you ,  we will stand and watch your pleasure . 	If you like ,  we’ll stand by and wait to do whatever you need . 
look ,  Lucius ,  here’s the book I sought for so . 	look ,  Lucius ,  here’s the book I was searching for . 
I put it in the pocket of my gown . 	I put it in the pocket of my nightgown . 
I was sure your lordship did not give it me . 	I was sure that you hadn’t given it to me . 
canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile ,  And touch thy instrument a strain or two ? 	can you stay awake a bit longer and play a few tunes on your lute ? 
ay ,  my lord ,  an ’t please you . 	yes ,  my lord ,  if you would like . 
It does ,  my boy . 	I would ,  my boy . 
I trouble thee too much ,  but thou art willing . 	I ask too much of you ,  but you’re always willing . 
It is my duty ,  sir . 	It’s my duty ,  sir . 
I should not urge thy duty past thy might . 	I shouldn’t make you do more than you’re able . 
I know young bloods look for a time of rest . 	I know that young men look forward to their rest . 
I have slept ,  my lord ,  already . 	I’ve already slept ,  my lord . 
It was well done ,  and thou shalt sleep again . 	that was good planning ,  and you’ll sleep some more . 
I will not hold thee long . 	I won’t keep you very long . 
If I do live ,  I will be good to thee . 	If I live through this ,  I’ll be good to you . 
this is a sleepy tune . 	this is a sleepy tune . 
o murderous slumber ,  Layst thou thy leaden mace upon my boy That plays thee music ? —Gentle knave ,  good night . 	gentle boy ,  good night . 
I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee . 	I won’t trouble you so much as to wake you . 
and ,  good boy ,  good night . 	good night ,  good boy . 
let me see ,  let me see . 	let me see ,  let me see . 
Is not the leaf turned down Where I left reading ? 	didn’t I turn down the page where I left off reading ? 
here it is ,  I think . 	here it is ,  I think . 
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes That shapes this monstrous apparition . 	I think it’s my bad eyesight that’s making me see this horrible vision . 
It comes upon me . —Art thou any thing ? 	It’s coming toward me . 
art thou some god ,  some angel ,  or some devil That makest my blood cold and my hair to stare ? 	are you a god ,  an angel ,  or a devil ,  that you make my blood turn cold and my hair stand up ? 
speak to me what thou art . 	tell me what you are . 
thy evil spirit ,  Brutus . 	I’m your evil spirit ,  Brutus . 
why comest thou ? 	why do you come here ? 
to tell thee thou shalt see me at Philippi . 	to tell you that you’ll see me at Philippi . 
well ,  then I shall see thee again ? 	then I’ll see you again ? 
ay ,  at Philippi . 	yes ,  at Philippi . 
why ,  I will see thee at Philippi ,  then . 	alright ,  then I’ll see you at Philippi . 
Ill spirit ,  I would hold more talk with thee . 	evil spirit ,  I want to talk some more . 
claudio ! 	claudio ! 
the strings ,  my lord ,  are false . 	claudio ! 
he thinks he still is at his instrument . 	he thinks he’s still playing his instrument . 
lucius ,  awake . 	lucius ,  wake up ! 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
didst thou dream ,  Lucius ,  that thou so criedst out ? 	were you dreaming ,  Lucius ? 
my lord ,  I do not know that I did cry . 	my lord ,  I don’t think I cried out . 
yes ,  that thou didst . 	yes ,  you did . 
didst thou see any thing ? 	did you see anything ? 
nothing ,  my lord . 	nothing ,  my lord . 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
why did you so cry out ,  sirs ,  in your sleep ? 	why did you cry out in your sleep ? 
did we ,  my lord ? 	did we ,  my lord ? 
ay . 	yes . 
saw you anything ? 	did you see anything ? 
no ,  my lord ,  I saw nothing . 	no ,  my lord ,  I didn’t see anything . 
nor I ,  my lord . 	me neither ,  my lord . 
go and commend me to my brother Cassius . 	go to my brother Cassius . 
bid him set on his powers betimes before ,  And we will follow . 	order him to advance his forces first thing ,  and we’ll follow . 
It shall be done ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
now ,  Antony ,  our hopes are answerèd . 	now ,  Antony ,  our prayers have been answered . 
you said the enemy would not come down But keep the hills and upper regions . 	you said the enemy wouldn’t come down but keep to the hills and upper regions . 
It proves not so . 	It seems not . 
their battles are at hand . 	their forces are nearby . 
they mean to warn us at Philippi here ,  Answering before we do demand of them . 	they intend to challenge us here at Philippi ,  responding to our challenge before we’ve even challenged him . 
tut ,  I am in their bosoms ,  and I know Wherefore they do it . 	I know how they think ,  and I understand why they’re doing this . 
they could be content To visit other places ,  and come down With fearful bravery ,  thinking by this face To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage . 	they really wish they were somewhere else ,  but they want to descend on us ,  looking fierce so we’ll think they’re brave . 
but ’tis not so . 	but they aren’t . 
prepare you ,  generals . 	prepare yourselves ,  generals . 
the enemy comes on in gallant show . 	the enemy approaches with great display . 
their bloody sign of battle is hung out ,  And something to be done immediately . 	they show their bloody heralds of battle ,  and something must be done immediately . 
octavius ,  lead your battle softly on ,  Upon the left hand of the even field . 	octavius ,  lead your forces slowly out to the left side of the level field . 
upon the right hand I . 	I’ll go to the right side . 
keep thou the left . 	you stay on the left . 
why do you cross me in this exigent ? 	why are you defying me in this urgent matter ? 
they stand and would have parley . 	they want to talk . 
stand fast ,  Titinius . 	stay here ,  Titinius . 
we must out and talk . 	we have to go out and talk to them . 
mark Antony ,  shall we give sign of battle ? 	mark Antony ,  should we give the signal to attack ? 
no ,  Caesar ,  we will answer on their charge . 	no ,  Octavius Caesar ,  we’ll respond to their charge . 
make forth . 	go forward . 
the generals would have some words . 	the generals want to speak with us . 
words before blows . 	words before fighting . 
Is it so ,  countrymen ? 	Is that how it is ,  countrymen ? 
not that we love words better ,  as you do . 	not that we love words more than fighting ,  like you do . 
good words are better than bad strokes ,  Octavius . 	good words are better than bad strokes ,  Octavius . 
In your bad strokes ,  Brutus ,  you give good words . 	brutus ,  you give a nice speech along with your evil strokes . 
but for your words ,  they rob the Hybla bees And leave them honeyless . 	but your words are as sweet as honey—you’ve stolen from the bees and left them with nothing . 
not stingless too ? 	I took their stings too ,  wouldn’t you say ? 
villains ,  you did not so when your vile daggers Hacked one another in the sides of Caesar . 	villains ,  you didn’t do even that much when your vile daggers struck each other as they hacked up Caesar’s sides . 
flatterers ? —Now ,  Brutus ,  thank yourself . 	now ,  Brutus ,  you have only yourself to thank . 
when think you that the sword goes up again ? 	come ,  come ,  let’s remember why we’re here . 
never ,  till Caesar’s three and thirty wounds Be well avenged ,  or till another Caesar Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors . 	If arguing makes us sweat ,  the real trial will turn that water to blood . 
caesar ,  thou canst not die by traitors' hands Unless thou bring’st them with thee . 	caesar ,  you’re not going to be killed by a traitor—unless you kill yourself .  . 
so I hope . 	I hope you’re right . 
I was not born to die on Brutus' sword . 	I wasn’t born to die on your sword . 
o ,  if thou wert the noblest of thy strain ,  Young man ,  thou couldst not die more honorable . 	If you were the noblest of your family ,  young man ,  you couldn’t die more honorably . 
a peevish schoolboy ,  worthless of such honor ,  Joined with a masker and a reveler ! 	an annoying schoolboy ,  unworthy of such an honor ,  joined by a masquerader and a partier ! 
old Cassius still . 	still the same old Cassius ! 
If you dare fight today ,  come to the field . 	If you dare to fight today ,  come to the field . 
If not ,  when you have stomachs . 	If not ,  come when you have the courage . 
why ,  now ,  blow wind ,  swell billow ,  and swim bark ! 	now let the wind blow ,  waves swell ,  and ships sink ! 
the storm is up and all is on the hazard . 	the storm has begun and everything is at stake . 
messala ! 	messala ! 
messala ,  This is my birthday ,  as this very day Was Cassius born . 	messala ,  today is my birthday—I was born on this very day . 
give me thy hand ,  Messala . 	give me your hand ,  Messala . 
be thou my witness that against my will ,  As Pompey was ,  am I compelled to set Upon one battle all our liberties . 	you’ll be my witness that I’ve been forced ,  as Pompey was ,  to wager all of our freedoms on one battle . 
you know that I held Epicurus strong And his opinion . 	you know that I used to believe in Epicurus and his disregard for omens . 
now I change my mind ,  And partly credit things that do presage . 	I’ve changed my mind now and partly believe in omens . 
coming from Sardis ,  on our former ensign Two mighty eagles fell ,  and there they perched ,  Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands ,  Who to Philippi here consorted us . 	traveling from Sardis ,  two mighty eagles fell on our front flag and perched there ,  eating from the hands of the soldiers who’d accompanied us to Philippi . 
this morning are they fled away and gone ,  And in their steads do ravens ,  crows ,  and kites Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us As we were sickly prey . 	this morning ,  they’ve flown away and in their place are ravens ,  crows ,  and kites ,  flying over our heads and looking down on us ,  as though we were sickly prey . 
their shadows seem A canopy most fatal ,  under which Our army lies ,  ready to give up the ghost . 	their shadows are like a deadly canopy ,  under which our army lies ,  ready to die . 
believe not so . 	don’t believe in this . 
I but believe it partly ,  For I am fresh of spirit and resolved To meet all perils very constantly . 	I only partly believe it ,  for I’m enthusiastic and resolved to meet all dangers without wavering . 
now ,  most noble Brutus ,  The gods today stand friendly that we may ,  Lovers in peace ,  lead on our days to age . 	now ,  most noble Brutus ,  the gods are friendly with us today so that we ,  who want peace ,  can live on to old age ! 
but since the affairs of men rest still incertain ,  Let’s reason with the worst that may befall . 	but since the affairs of men are always uncertain ,  let’s think about the worst that may happen . 
If we do lose this battle ,  then is this The very last time we shall speak together . 	If we lose this battle ,  this is the last time we’ll speak to each other . 
what are you then determinèd to do ? 	If we lose ,  what do you plan to do ? 
brutus ”  will start a spirit as soon as  “ Caesar .  ”  Now in the names of all the gods at once ,  Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed That he is grown so great ? 	cast spells with them ,  and  “ Brutus ”  will call up a ghost as well as  “ Caesar .  ”  Now ,  in the name of all the gods ,  I ask you what food does Caesar eat that has made him grow so great ? 
age ,  thou art shamed ! 	our era should be ashamed ! 
rome ,  thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods ! 	rome has lost the ability to raise noble men ! 
when went there by an age ,  since the great flood ,  But it was famed with more than with one man ? 	when was there ever an age ,  since the beginning of time ,  that didn’t feature more than one famous man ? 
when could they say till now ,  that talked of Rome ,  That her wide walks encompassed but one man ? 	until now ,  no one could say that only one man mattered in all of vast Rome . 
now is it Rome indeed ,  and room enough ,  When there is in it but one only man . 	now ,  though ,  in all of Rome ,  there’s room for only one man . 
oh ,  you and I have heard our fathers say ,  There was a Brutus once that would have brooked Th' eternal devil to keep his state in Rome As easily as a king . 	you and I have heard our fathers talk of another Brutus—your ancestor—who would’ve let the devil himself reign in his Roman Republic before he let a king rule . 
that you do love me ,  I am nothing jealous . 	I have no doubt that you love me . 
what you would work me to ,  I have some aim . 	I’m beginning to understand what you want me to do . 
how I have thought of this and of these times I shall recount hereafter . 	what I think about this ,  and about what’s happening here in Rome ,  I’ll tell you later . 
for this present ,  I would not ,  so with love I might entreat you ,  Be any further moved . 	for now ,  don’t try to persuade me anymore—I ask you as a friend . 
what you have said I will consider ,  what you have to say I will with patience hear ,  and find a time Both meet to hear and answer such high things . 	I’ll think over what you’ve said ,  I’ll listen patiently to whatever else you have to say ,  and I’ll find a good time for us to discuss further such weighty matters . 
till then ,  my noble friend ,  chew upon this: Brutus had rather be a villager Than to repute himself a son of Rome Under these hard conditions as this time Is like to lay upon us . 	until then ,  my noble friend ,  think about this: I’d rather be a poor villager than call myself a citizen of Rome under the hard conditions that this time is likely to put us through . 
I am glad that my weak words Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus . 	I’m glad that my weak words have provoked even this small show of protest from you . 
then if we lose this battle You are contented to be led in triumph Thorough the streets of Rome ? 	then if we lose this battle ,  you’ll be willing to be led in chains through the streets of Rome ? 
no ,  Cassius ,  no . 	no ,  Cassius ,  no . 
think not ,  thou noble Roman ,  That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome . 	don’t imagine that I’ll ever allow myself to return to Rome in chains . 
he bears too great a mind . 	my mind is too great for that . 
therefore our everlasting farewell take . 	therefore ,  accept my everlasting farewell . 
forever and forever farewell ,  Cassius . 	forever and forever ,  farewell ,  Cassius ! 
If we do meet again ,  why ,  we shall smile . 	If we meet again ,  then we’ll smile . 
If not ,  why then this parting was well made . 	If not ,  then this parting was well done . 
forever and forever farewell ,  Brutus . 	forever and forever ,  farewell ,  Brutus ! 
If we do meet again ,  we’ll smile indeed . 	If we meet again ,  then we’ll smile indeed . 
If not ,  ’tis true this parting was well made . 	If not ,  it’s true ,  this parting was well done . 
why then ,  lead on . 	well ,  lead on . 
oh ,  that a man might know The end of this day’s business ere it come ! 	oh ,  I wish I could know what will happen today before it happens ! 
but it sufficeth that the day will end ,  And then the end is known . —Come ,  ho ! 	but it’s enough to know that the day will end ,  and then the end will be known . 
away ! 	let’s go ! 
ride ,  ride ,  Messala ,  ride ,  and give these bills Unto the legions on the other side . 	ride ,  ride ,  Messala ,  ride ,  and give these dispatches to our forces on the other side . 
let them set on at once ,  for I perceive But cold demeanor in Octavius' wing ,  And sudden push gives them the overthrow . 	they should advance immediately ,  because I sense Octavius’s side is a bit fainthearted right now ,  and a sudden push would overthrow him . 
ride ,  ride ,  Messala . 	ride ,  ride ,  Messala . 
myself have to mine own turned enemy . 	I’ve become an enemy to my own soldiers ! 
o Cassius ,  Brutus gave the word too early ,  Who ,  having some advantage on Octavius ,  Took it too eagerly . 	oh ,  Cassius ,  Brutus gave the orders too soon . 
fly further off ,  my lord ,  fly further off . 	retreat further ,  my lord ,  retreat further . 
mark Antony is in your tents ,  my lord . 	mark Antony is in your tents ,  my lord . 
fly ,  therefore ,  noble Cassius ,  fly far off . 	therefore you must run ,  noble Cassius . 
are those my tents where I perceive the fire ? 	are those my tents on fire ? 
they are ,  my lord . 	they are ,  my lord . 
titinius ,  if thou lovest me ,  Mount thou my horse ,  and hide thy spurs in him Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops And here again ,  that I may rest assured Whether yond troops are friend or enemy . 	titinius ,  if you love me ,  get on your horse and spur him on until he’s brought you to those troops and back again ,  so that I can find out whether those troops are friends or enemies . 
I will be here again ,  even with a thought . 	I’ll be back quicker than you can think a thought . 
go ,  Pindarus ,  get higher on that hill . 	go ,  Pindarus ,  climb a little higher on this hill . 
my sight was ever thick . 	my eyesight has always been bad . 
regard Titinius ,  And tell me what thou notest about the field . 	watch Titinius and tell me what you see in the field . 
this day I breathed first . 	today was the day I breathed my first breath . 
time is come round ,  And where I did begin ,  there shall I end . 	time has come round ,  and I’ll end where I began . 
my life is run his compass . 	my life has run its circle . 
what news ? 	what news ? 
and ,  hark ! 	and listen ! 
they shout for joy . 	they shout for joy . 
come down ,  behold no more . 	come down ,  look no more . 
oh ,  coward that I am ,  to live so long To see my best friend ta'en before my face ! 	oh ,  I’m such a coward for living long enough to see my best friend taken before my eyes ! 
come hither ,  sirrah . 	come here ,  boy . 
come now ,  keep thine oath . 	come now ,  keep your oath . 
caesar ,  thou art revenged ,  Even with the sword that killed thee . 	caesar ,  you are revenged with the very same sword that killed you . 
so I am free . 	so I’m free . 
yet would not so have been ,  Durst I have done my will . 	but I didn’t want to be free like this . 
o Cassius ,  Far from this country Pindarus shall run ,  Where never Roman shall take note of him . 	oh ,  Cassius ,  I’ll run far from this country to where no Romans can find me . 
It is but change ,  Titinius ,  for Octavius Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power ,  As Cassius' legions are by Antony . 	the armies have merely changed places ,  Titinius ,  because Octavius has been overthrown by noble Brutus’s forces at the very moment that Antony overthrew Cassius’s legions . 
these tidings will well comfort Cassius . 	this news will comfort Cassius . 
where did you leave him ? 	where did you leave him ? 
all disconsolate ,  With Pindarus his bondman on this hill . 	on this hill and in despair ,  with his slave Pindarus . 
Is not that he that lies upon the ground ? 	Isn’t that him on the ground ? 
he lies not like the living . 	he doesn’t seem to be alive . 
o my heart ! 	oh ,  my heart ! 
Is not that he ? 	Isn’t that him ? 
what ,  Pindarus ! 	pindarus ! 
where art thou ,  Pindarus ? 	where are you ,  Pindarus ? 
seek him ,  Titinius ,  whilst I go to meet The noble Brutus ,  thrusting this report Into his ears . 	look for him ,  Titinius ,  while I go to meet the noble Brutus and force him to hear this news . 
I may say  “ thrusting ”  it ,  For piercing steel and darts envenomèd Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus As tidings of this sight . 	I say  “ force ”  because Brutus would rather I stuck sharp blades and poisoned arrows in his ears than fill them with this . 
hie you ,  Messala ,  And I will seek for Pindarus the while . 	hurry ,  Messala ,  and I’ll look for Pindarus in the meantime . 
why didst thou send me forth ,  brave Cassius ? 	why did you send me out ,  brave Cassius ? 
did I not meet thy friends ? 	didn’t I meet up with your allies ? 
and did not they Put on my brows this wreath of victory And bid me give it thee ? 	and didn’t they place the wreath of victory on my brow and order me to give it to you ? 
didst thou not hear their shouts ? 	didn’t you hear their shouts ? 
alas ,  thou hast misconstrued everything ! 	alas ,  you misunderstood everything ! 
but ,  hold thee ,  take this garland on thy brow . 	but let me place this wreath on your head . 
thy Brutus bid me give it thee ,  and I Will do his bidding . 	your Brutus ordered me to give it to you ,  and I’ll do what he says . 
where ,  where ,  Messala ,  doth his body lie ? 	where is his body ,  Messala ? 
lo ,  yonder ,  and Titinius mourning it . 	over there ,  where Titinius mourns it . 
titinius' face is upward . 	titinius is lying face - up . 
he is slain . 	he’s been killed . 
o Julius Caesar ,  thou art mighty yet ! 	oh ,  Julius Caesar ,  you are still powerful . 
thy spirit walks abroad and turns our swords In our own proper entrails . 	your ghost walks the earth and turns our swords toward our own stomachs . 
are yet two Romans living such as these ? 	could you have found two Romans as good as these two ? 
the last of all the Romans ,  fare thee well ! 	good - bye to you ,  the last of all the Romans . 
I shall find time ,  Cassius ,  I shall find time . 	I will find the time to cry for you ,  Cassius ,  I’ll find the time . 
come ,  therefore ,  and to Thasos send his body . 	come ,  then ,  and send his body to Thasos . 
let us to the field . 	let’s proceed to the field . 
labio and Flavio ,  set our battles on . 	labio and Flavio ,  push our armies onward . 
tis three o'clock ,  and ,  Romans ,  yet ere night We shall try fortune in a second fight . 	It is three o'clock ,  and ,  Romans ,  before night ,  we will try our luck in a second battle . 
what bastard doth not ? 	who is so low that he wouldn’t ? 
who will go with me ? 	who will advance with me ? 
I will proclaim my name about the field . 	I will proclaim my name around the field . 
I am the son of Marcus Cato ,  ho ! 	I am the son of Marcus Cato ! 
a foe to tyrants ,  and my country’s friend . 	an enemy to tyrants and a friend to my country . 
I am the son of Marcus Cato ,  ho ! 	I am the son of Marcus Cato ! 
and I am Brutus ,  Marcus Brutus ,  I ! 	and I am Brutus ,  Marcus Brutus . 
brutus ,  my country’s friend . 	brutus ,  my country’s friend . 
know me for Brutus ! 	know that I am Brutus ! 
o young and noble Cato ,  art thou down ? 	oh ,  young and noble Cato ,  have you been slain ? 
only I yield to die . 	I’d rather die . 
there is so much that thou wilt kill me straight . 	here is some money for you to kill me immediately . 
kill Brutus ,  and be honored in his death . 	kill Brutus and be honored by the killing . 
we must not . 	we must not . 
a noble prisoner ! 	he is a noble prisoner ! 
room ,  ho ! 	make room ! 
tell Antony Brutus is ta'en . 	tell Antony that Brutus has been taken . 
I’ll tell the news . 	I’ll tell him the news . 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
safe ,  Antony . 	he’s safe ,  Antony . 
I dare assure thee that no enemy Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus . 	I can assure you that no enemy will ever take the noble Brutus alive . 
the gods defend him from so great a shame ! 	the gods protect him from so great a shame ! 
the games are done and Caesar is returning . 	the games are done and Caesar is returning . 
as they pass by ,  pluck Casca by the sleeve ,  And he will ,  after his sour fashion ,  tell you What hath proceeded worthy note today . 	as they pass by ,  grab Casca by the sleeve ,  and he’ll tell you if anything important happened today—in his usual sour way . 
I will do so . 	I’ll do so . 
but ,  look you ,  Cassius ,  The angry spot doth glow on Caesar’s brow ,  And all the rest look like a chidden train . 	but look ,  Cassius ,  Caesar looks angry and everyone else looks as if they’ve been scolded . 
calphurnia’s cheek is pale ,  and Cicero Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes As we have seen him in the Capitol Being crossed in conference by some senators . 	calphurnia’s face is pale ,  and Cicero’s eyes are as red and fiery as they get when senators are arguing with him at the Capitol . 
casca will tell us what the matter is . 	casca will tell us what’s the matter . 
antonio . 	antonio ! 
caesar . 	caesar ? 
come ,  poor remains of friends ,  rest on this rock . 	come ,  last of my friends ,  rest on this rock . 
statilius showed the torchlight but ,  my lord ,  He came not back . 	statilius waved the torchlight at us ,  but he hasn’t come back . 
he is or ta'en or slain . 	he’s been captured or killed . 
sit thee down ,  Clitus . 	sit down ,  Clitus . 
hark thee ,  Clitus . 	listen ,  Clitus . 
what ,  I ,  my lord ? 	who ,  me ,  my lord ? 
no ,  not for all the world . 	no ,  not for all the world . 
peace then ! 	silence ,  then ! 
no words . 	don’t give it away . 
I’ll rather kill myself . 	I’d rather kill myself . 
hark thee ,  Dardanius . 	listen ,  Dardanius . 
shall I do such a deed ? 	would I dare do something like that ? 
o Dardanius ! 	oh Dardanius ! 
o Clitus ! 	oh Clitus ! 
come hither ,  good Volumnius . 	come here ,  good Volumnius . 
list a word . 	listen a minute . 
what says my lord ? 	what is it ,  my lord ? 
at Sardis once ,  And this last night here in Philippi fields . 	once at Sardis and once last night ,  here in Philippi fields . 
I know my hour is come . 	I know that my hour has come . 
not so ,  my lord . 	no ,  it hasn’t ,  my lord . 
nay ,  I am sure it is ,  Volumnius . 	no ,  I’m sure it has ,  Volumnius . 
thou seest the world ,  Volumnius ,  how it goes . 	you see how the world goes ,  Volumnius . 
our enemies have beat us to the pit . 	our enemies have driven us to the edge of the grave . 
It is more worthy to leap in ourselves Than tarry till they push us . 	It’s nobler to leap in ourselves than dawdle until they push us . 
good Volumnius ,  Thou know’st that we two went to school together . 	good Volumnius ,  you know that we went to school together . 
even for that our love of old ,  I prithee ,  Hold thou my sword hilts ,  whilst I run on it . 	for the sake of our old friendship ,  I ask you ,  hold my sword handle while I run on it . 
that’s not an office for a friend ,  my lord . 	that’s not a job for a friend ,  my lord . 
fly ,  fly ,  my lord . 	run ,  run ,  my lord . 
there is no tarrying here . 	we can’t wait here . 
farewell to you . —And you . —And you ,  Volumnius . 	farewell to you ,  and you ,  and you ,  Volumnius . 
strato ,  thou hast been all this while asleep . 	strato ,  you’ve slept this whole time . 
I shall have glory by this losing day More than Octavius and Mark Antony By this vile conquest shall attain unto . 	I’ll have glory in this losing day—more than Octavius and Mark Antony will gain by their foul conquest . 
so fare you well at once ,  for Brutus' tongue Hath almost ended his life’s history . 	so farewell ,  all ,  for my tongue has almost finished with its life . 
night hangs upon mine eyes . 	I can’t see ahead of me . 
my bones would rest ,  That have but labored to attain this hour . 	my bones want to rest after helping me up to this hour . 
fly ,  my lord ,  fly . 	run ,  my lord ,  run . 
hence . 	go on ! 
I will follow . 	I’ll follow . 
I prithee ,  Strato ,  stay thou by thy lord . 	I beg you ,  Strato ,  stay by me . 
thou art a fellow of a good respect . 	you’re a man with a good reputation . 
thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it . 	your life has had honor in it . 
hold then my sword and turn away thy face While I do run upon it . 	then ,  hold my sword and turn your face away while I run on it . 
wilt thou ,  Strato ? 	will you ,  Strato ? 
give me your hand first . 	give me your hand ,  first . 
farewell ,  good Strato . 	farewell ,  good Strato . 
what man is that ? 	what man is that ? 
free from the bondage you are in ,  Messala . 	free from the bondage you are in ,  Messala . 
all that served Brutus ,  I will entertain them . 	I’ll take all who served Brutus into my service . 
fellow ,  wilt thou bestow thy time with me ? 	you ,  will you join with me ? 
ay ,  if Messala will prefer me to you . 	yes ,  if Messala recommends me to you . 
do so ,  good Messala . 	do so ,  good Messala . 
how died my master ,  Strato ? 	how did my master die ,  Strato ? 
I held the sword and he did run on it . 	I held the sword and he ran on it . 
octavius ,  then take him to follow thee ,  That did the latest service to my master . 	then take this man into your service ,  Octavius ,  for he did the final service to my master . 
this was the noblest Roman of them all . 	this was the noblest Roman of them all . 
all the conspirators save only he Did that they did in envy of great Caesar . 	all the rest of the conspirators acted out of jealousy of great Caesar . 
he only in a general honest thought And common good to all ,  made one of them . 	only he acted from honesty and for the general good . 
his life was gentle ,  and the elements So mixed in him that Nature might stand up And say to all the world ,   “ This was a man .  ”  According to his virtue let us use him ,  With all respect and rites of burial . 	his life was gentle ,  and the elements mixed so well in him that Nature might stand up and say to all the world ,   “ This was a man .  ”  Let’s treat him according to his virtue ,  with all the respect and rituals of burial . 
within my tent his bones tonight shall lie Most like a soldier ,  ordered honorably . 	his body will lie in my tent tonight ,  with the honorable observance that suits a soldier . 
so call the field to rest ,  and let’s away To part the glories of this happy day . 	so order the armies to rest ,  and let’s go home to share the glories of this happy day . 
ay ,  Casca . 	yes ,  Casca . 
tell us what hath chanced today That Caesar looks so sad . 	tell us what happened today that put Caesar in such a serious mood . 
why ,  you were with him ,  were you not ? 	but you were with him ,  weren’t you ? 
I should not then ask Casca what had chanced . 	If I were ,  I wouldn’t need to ask you what happened . 
why ,  there was a crown offered him; and ,  being offered him ,  he put it by with the back of his hand ,  thus; and then the people fell a - shouting . 	a crown was offered to him ,  and he pushed it away with the back of his hand ,  like this—and then the people started shouting . 
what was the second noise for ? 	what was the second noise for ? 
why ,  for that too . 	the same thing . 
they shouted thrice . 	they shouted three times . 
what was the last cry for ? 	what was the last cry for ? 
why ,  for that too . 	for the same thing . 
was the crown offered him thrice ? 	the crown was offered to him three times ? 
ay ,  marry ,  was ’t ,  and he put it by thrice ,  every time gentler than other ,  and at every putting - by mine honest neighbors shouted . 	yes ,  indeed ,  it was ,  and he pushed it away three times ,  each time more gently than the last; and at each refusal my countrymen shouted . 
who offered him the crown ? 	who offered him the crown ? 
why ,  Antony . 	antony . 
tell us the manner of it ,  gentle Casca . 	tell us how it happened ,  noble Casca . 
I can as well be hanged as tell the manner of it . 	I can’t explain it . 
I saw Mark Antony offer him a crown (yet ’twas not a crown neither ,  ’twas one of these coronets) and ,  as I told you ,  he put it by once—but ,  for all that ,  to my thinking ,  he would fain have had it . 	I saw Mark Antony offer him a crown—though it wasn’t a real crown ,  just a small circlet—and ,  as I told you ,  he refused it once—though in my opinion he would’ve liked to have it . 
then he offered it to him again ,  then he put it by again—but ,  to my thinking ,  he was very loath to lay his fingers off it . 	then Antony offered it to him again ,  and he refused it again (though ,  in my opinion ,  he was reluctant to take his hand off it) . 
and then he offered it the third time . 	then Antony offered it the third time . 
and for mine own part ,  I durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips and receiving the bad air . 	as for myself ,  I didn’t dare laugh ,  for fear of opening my lips and inhaling the stinking air . 
but soft ,  I pray you . 	but wait a minute ,  please . 
what ,  did Caesar swoon ? 	did you say Caesar fainted ? 
he fell down in the marketplace ,  and foamed at mouth ,  and was speechless . 	he fell down in the marketplace and foamed at the mouth and was speechless . 
tis very like . 	that’s very likely . 
he hath the falling sickness . 	he has epilepsy ,  a disease where you fall down . 
no ,  Caesar hath it not . 	no ,  Caesar doesn’t have epilepsy . 
but you and I And honest Casca ,  we have the falling sickness . 	you and I ,  and honest Casca ,  we have epilepsy—we’ve fallen . 
I know not what you mean by that ,  but I am sure Caesar fell down . 	I don’t know what you mean by that ,  but I’m sure Caesar fell down . 
what said he when he came unto himself ? 	what did he say when he regained consciousness ? 
marry ,  before he fell down ,  when he perceived the common herd was glad he refused the crown ,  he plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his throat to cut . 	Indeed ,  before he fell down ,  when he realized the commoners were glad he refused the crown ,  he pulled open his robe and offered them his throat to cut . 
an I had been a man of any occupation ,  if I would not have taken him at a word ,  I would I might go to hell among the rogues . 	If I’d been a common laborer and hadn’t taken him up on his offer ,  to hell with me . 
and so he fell . 	and so he fainted . 
when he came to himself again ,  he said ,  if he had done or said anything amiss ,  he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity . 	when he regained consciousness again ,  he said that if he’d done or said anything wrong ,  he wanted them to know that it was all because of his sickness . 
three or four wenches where I stood cried ,   “ Alas ,  good soul !  ”  and forgave him with all their hearts . 	three or four women near me cried ,   “ Alas ,  good soul !  ”  and forgave him with all their hearts . 
If Caesar had stabbed their mothers they would have done no less . 	but never mind them—if Caesar had stabbed their mothers ,  they would’ve forgiven him . 
and after that he came thus sad away ? 	and after that he came back here looking so serious ? 
ay . 	yes . 
hence ! 	get out of here ! 
home ,  you idle creatures get you home ! 	go home ,  you lazy men . 
Is this a holiday ? 	what ,  is today a holiday ? 
why ,  sir ,  a carpenter . 	I’m a carpenter ,  sir . 
where is thy leather apron and thy rule ? 	where are your leather apron and your ruler ? 
what dost thou with thy best apparel on ? 	what are you doing ,  wearing your best clothes ? 
truly ,  sir ,  in respect of a fine workman ,  I am but ,  as you would say ,  a cobbler . 	and you ,  sir ,  what’s  Well ,  compared to a fine workman ,  you might call me a mere cobbler . 
but what trade art thou ? 	but what’s your trade ? 
answer me directly . 	answer me straightforwardly . 
a trade ,  sir ,  that I hope I may use with a safe conscience ,  which is ,  indeed ,  sir ,  a mender of bad soles . 	It is a trade ,  sir ,  that I practice with a clear conscience . 
what trade ,  thou knave ? 	what trade ,  boy ? 
thou naughty knave ,  what trade ? 	you insolent rascal ,  what trade ? 
nay ,  I beseech you ,  sir ,  be not out with me . 	sir ,  please ,  don’t be angry . 
yet ,  if you be out ,  sir ,  I can mend you . 	but if your soles are worn out ,  I can mend you . 
what mean’st thou by that ? 	what do you mean by that ? 
mend ”  me ,  thou saucy fellow ? 	mend ”  me ,  you impertinent fellow ? 
did Cicero say anything ? 	did Cicero say anything ? 
ay ,  he spoke Greek . 	yes ,  he said something in Greek . 
to what effect ? 	what did he say ? 
nay ,  an I tell you that ,  I’ll ne'er look you i' th' face again . 	If I told you I understood Greek ,  I’d be lying . 
but those that understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads . 	but those who understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads . 
but ,  for mine own part ,  it was Greek to me . 	as for myself ,  it was Greek to me . 
I could tell you more news too . 	I have more news too . 
murellus and Flavius ,  for pulling scarfs off Caesar’s images ,  are put to silence . 	murellus and Flavius have been punished for pulling scarves off statues of Caesar . 
fare you well . 	there you go . 
there was more foolery yet ,  if I could remember it . 	there was even more foolishness ,  if I could only remember it . 
will you sup with me tonight ,  Casca ? 	will you have dinner with me tonight ,  Casca ? 
no ,  I am promised forth . 	no ,  I have a commitment . 
will you dine with me tomorrow ? 	will you dine with me tomorrow ? 
ay ,  if I be alive and your mind hold and your dinner worth the eating . 	yes ,  if I’m still alive ,  and you’re still sane ,  and your dinner is worth eating . 
good . 	good . 
I will expect you . 	I’ll expect you . 
do so . 	do so . 
farewell both . 	farewell to you both . 
what a blunt fellow is this grown to be ! 	what a stupid man he’s become ! 
he was quick mettle when he went to school . 	he was so sharp when he was in school . 
so is he now in execution Of any bold or noble enterprise ,  However he puts on this tardy form . 	he’s still sharp when it comes to carrying out a bold or noble enterprise ,  though he puts on this show of stupidity . 
this rudeness is a sauce to his good wit ,  Which gives men stomach to digest his words With better appetite . 	he speaks roughly ,  but what he says is smart ,  and his roughness makes other people enjoy listening to him . 
and so it is . 	you’re right ,  that’s how it is . 
for this time I will leave you . 	I’ll leave you for now . 
tomorrow ,  if you please to speak with me ,  I will come home to you . 	If you’d like to talk tomorrow ,  I’ll come to your home . 
or ,  if you will ,  Come home to me ,  and I will wait for you . 	or ,  if you don’t mind ,  come to my home ,  and I’ll wait for you . 
I will do so . 	I’ll do so . 
till then ,  think of the world . 	until then ,  think about the well - being of Rome . 
well ,  Brutus ,  thou art noble . 	well ,  Brutus ,  you’re noble . 
caesar doth bear me hard ,  but he loves Brutus . 	caesar resents me ,  but he loves Brutus . 
If I were Brutus now and he were Cassius ,  He should not humor me . 	If I were Brutus now and Brutus were me ,  I wouldn’t have let him influence me . 
I will this night ,  In several hands ,  in at his windows throw ,  As if they came from several citizens ,  Writings all tending to the great opinion That Rome holds of his name ,  wherein obscurely Caesar’s ambition shall be glancèd at . 	tonight I’ll throw through his window a few letters in different handwriting—as if they came from several citizens—all testifying to the great respect Romans have for Brutus ,  and all alluding to Caesar’s unseemly ambition . 
brought you Caesar home ? 	did you accompany Caesar home ? 
o Cicero ,  I have seen tempests when the scolding winds Have rived the knotty oaks ,  and I have seen Th' ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam To be exalted with the threatening clouds ,  But never till tonight ,  never till now ,  Did I go through a tempest dropping fire . 	cicero ,  I’ve seen storms in which the angry winds split old oak trees ,  and I’ve seen the ocean swell ,  rage ,  and foam ,  as if it wanted to reach the storm clouds ,  but never before tonight ,  never until now ,  have I experienced a storm that drops fire . 
either there is a civil strife in heaven ,  Or else the world ,  too saucy with the gods ,  Incenses them to send destruction . 	either there are wars in heaven ,  or else the world ,  too insolent toward the gods ,  provokes them to send destruction . 
besides—I ha' not since put up my sword— Against the Capitol I met a lion ,  Who glared upon me and went surly by ,  Without annoying me . 	also—I’ve kept my sword unsheathed since I saw this—in front of the Capitol I met a lion who looked at me and strutted by without bothering to attack me . 
and there were drawn Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women ,  Transformèd with their fear ,  who swore they saw Men all in fire walk up and down the streets . 	and there were a hundred spooked women huddled together in fear who swore they saw men on fire walk up and down the streets . 
and yesterday the bird of night did sit Even at noon - day upon the marketplace ,  Hooting and shrieking . 	and yesterday the night owl sat hooting and shrieking in the marketplace at noon . 
when these prodigies Do so conjointly meet ,  let not men say ,   “ These are their reasons . 	when all these extraordinary things happen at once ,  we shouldn’t say ,   “ These happenings can be explained rationally . 
they are natural .  ”  For I believe they are portentous things Unto the climate that they point upon . 	they’re natural enough .  ”  I think these things are omens of things to come in our country . 
Indeed ,  it is a strange - disposèd time . 	Indeed ,  it’s a strange time . 
but men may construe things after their fashion ,  Clean from the purpose of the things themselves . 	but men tend to interpret things however suits them and totally miss the actual meaning of the things themselves . 
comes Caesar to the Capitol tomorrow ? 	Is Caesar visiting the Capitol tomorrow ? 
he doth ,  for he did bid Antonius Send word to you he would be there tomorrow . 	he is ,  because he told Antonius to tell you he’d be there tomorrow . 
good night then ,  Casca . 	good night then ,  Casca . 
this disturbèd sky Is not to walk in . 	this bad weather isn’t good to walk around in . 
a Roman . 	a Roman . 
casca ,  by your voice . 	It’s Casca—I know your voice . 
your ear is good . 	your ear is good . 
cassius ,  what night is this ! 	cassius ,  what a night this is ! 
a very pleasing night to honest men . 	It’s a very pleasing night to honest men . 
who ever knew the heavens menace so ? 	who ever saw the heavens threaten like this ? 
those that have known the earth so full of faults . 	those who have known how bad things are here on earth . 
for my part ,  I have walked about the streets ,  Submitting me unto the perilous night ,  And ,  thus unbracèd ,  Casca ,  as you see ,  Have bared my bosom to the thunder - stone . 	I have walked around the streets ,  exposing myself to the perilous night ,  unbuttoned like this ,  as you see ,  Casca ,  baring my chest to the thunderbolt . 
and when the cross blue lightning seemed to open The breast of heaven ,  I did present myself Even in the aim and very flash of it . 	when the forked blue lightning seemed to break open the sky ,  I put myself right where I thought it would hit . 
but wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens ? 	but why did you tempt the heavens like that ? 
It is the part of men to fear and tremble When the most mighty gods by tokens send Such dreadful heralds to astonish us . 	mankind’s role is to fear and tremble when the almighty gods send warning signals . 
you are dull ,  Casca ,  and those sparks of life That should be in a Roman you do want ,  Or else you use not . 	you’re acting stupid ,  Casca ,  and you lack the quick wits that a Roman should have—or else you don’t use them . 
you look pale ,  and gaze ,  And put on fear ,  and cast yourself in wonder To see the strange impatience of the heavens . 	you go pale ,  you stare ,  and you act in awe of the strange disturbance in the heavens . 
a man no mightier than thyself or me In personal action ,  yet prodigious grown ,  And fearful as these strange eruptions are . 	a man no mightier than you or I in ability ,  yet grown as huge and frightening as tonight’s strange happenings . 
let it be who it is . 	let it be who it is . 
our yoke and sufferance show us womanish . 	our tolerance for slavery and oppression shows us to be weak ,  like women . 
Indeed ,  they say the senators tomorrow Mean to establish Caesar as a king ,  And he shall wear his crown by sea and land In every place save here in Italy . 	Indeed ,  they say that the senators plan to establish Caesar as a king tomorrow ,  and he’ll wear his crown at sea and on land everywhere except here in Italy . 
I know where I will wear this dagger then . 	I know where I’ll wear this dagger ,  then . 
cassius from bondage will deliver Cassius . 	I’ll kill myself to save myself from slavery . 
therein ,  ye gods ,  you make the weak most strong . 	In suicide ,  gods make the weak strong . 
therein ,  ye gods ,  you tyrants do defeat . 	In suicide ,  gods allow tyrants to be defeated . 
nor stony tower ,  nor walls of beaten brass ,  Nor airless dungeon ,  nor strong links of iron Can be retentive to the strength of spirit . 	no stony tower ,  no brass walls ,  no airless dungeon ,  no iron chains can contain a strong mind . 
but life ,  being weary of these worldly bars ,  Never lacks power to dismiss itself . 	but if a man becomes weary of these obstacles ,  he can always kill himself . 
If I know this ,  know all the world besides ,  That part of tyranny that I do bear I can shake off at pleasure . 	let everyone beware: I can shake off the tyranny that now oppresses me whenever I choose . 
so can I . 	so can I . 
so every bondman in his own hand bears The power to cancel his captivity . 	In fact ,  every imprisoned man holds in his own hand the tool to free himself . 
and why should Caesar be a tyrant then ? 	how can Caesar be a tyrant then ? 
poor man ! 	poor man ! 
I know he would not be a wolf But that he sees the Romans are but sheep . 	I know he wouldn’t be a wolf if the Romans didn’t act like sheep . 
he were no lion were not Romans hinds . 	he couldn’t be a lion if the Romans weren’t such easy prey . 
those that with haste will make a mighty fire Begin it with weak straws . 	people who want to start a big fire quickly start with little twigs . 
but ,  O grief ,  Where hast thou led me ? 	but ,  oh no ! 
then I know My answer must be made . 	what have I said in my grief ? 
you speak to Casca ,  and to such a man That is no fleering telltale . 	say no more . 
hold ,  my hand . 	shake my hand . 
be factious for redress of all these griefs ,  And I will set this foot of mine as far As who goes farthest . 	If you’re joining together to right these wrongs ,  I’ll go as far as any one of you . 
there’s a bargain made . 	that’s a deal . 
now know you ,  Casca ,  I have moved already Some certain of the noblest - minded Romans To undergo with me an enterprise Of honorable - dangerous consequence . 	now let me tell you ,  Casca ,  I have already convinced some of the noblest Romans to join me in an honorable but dangerous mission . 
and I do know by this they stay for me In Pompey’s porch . 	and I know that by now they’re waiting for me on the porch outside Pompey’s theater . 
tis Cinna . 	It’s Cinna . 
I do know him by his gait . 	I recognize his walk . 
to find out you . 	to find you . 
who’s that ? 	who’s that ? 
metellus Cimber ? 	metellus Cimber ? 
no ,  it is Casca ,  one incorporate To our attempts . 	no ,  it’s Casca ,  someone who’s going to work with us . 
am I not stayed for ,  Cinna ? 	aren’t the others waiting for me ,  Cinna ? 
I am glad on ’t . 	I’m glad Casca is with us . 
what a fearful night is this ! 	what a fearful night this is ! 
there’s two or three of us have seen strange sights . 	two or three of us have seen strange things . 
am I not stayed for ? 	are the others waiting ? 
tell me . 	tell me . 
yes ,  you are . 	yes ,  they are . 
o Cassius ,  if you could But win the noble Brutus to our party— Be you content . 	oh ,  Cassius ,  if you could only convince Brutus to join us— Don’t worry . 
good Cinna ,  take this paper ,  And look you lay it in the praetor’s chair Where Brutus may but find it . 	good Cinna ,  take this paper and be sure to lay it in the judge’s chair where Brutus sits ,  so he’ll find it . 
all this done ,  Repair to Pompey’s porch ,  where you shall find us . 	when you’ve finished all this ,  return to the porch of Pompey’s theater ,  where you’ll find us . 
Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there ? 	are Decius Brutus and Trebonius there ? 
all but Metellus Cimber ,  and he’s gone To seek you at your house . 	everyone’s there except Metellus Cimber ,  and he’s gone to look for you at your house . 
well ,  I will hie ,  And so bestow these papers as you bade me . 	well ,  I’ll hurry and put these papers where you told me . 
that done ,  repair to Pompey’s theatre . 	when you’ve finished ,  go back to Pompey’s theater . 
come ,  Casca ,  you and I will yet ere day See Brutus at his house . 	come on ,  Casca ,  you and I will go see Brutus at his house before sunrise . 
him and his worth and our great need of him You have right well conceited . 	yes ,  you’re absolutely right about how worthy Brutus is and how much we need him . 
let us go ,  For it is after midnight ,  and ere day We will awake him and be sure of him . 	let’s go ,  because it’s already after midnight ,  and we want him on our side before daylight . 
awake ,  I say ! 	wake up ,  I say ! 
what ,  Lucius ! 	lucius ! 
called you ,  my lord ? 	did you call me ,  my lord ? 
get me a taper in my study ,  Lucius . 	put a candle in my study ,  Lucius . 
when it is lighted ,  come and call me here . 	call me when it’s lit . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will ,  my lord . 
It must be by his death ,  and for my part I know no personal cause to spurn at him But for the general . 	I have no personal reason to strike at him—only the best interest of the people . 
he would be crowned . 	he wants to be crowned . 
how that might change his nature ,  there’s the question . 	the question is ,  how would being king change him ? 
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder And that craves wary walking . 	evil can come from good ,  just as poisonous snakes tend to come out into the open on bright sunny days—which means we have to walk carefully . 
crown him that ,  And then I grant we put a sting in him That at his will he may do danger with . 	If we crown him ,  I have to admit we’d be giving him the power to do damage . 
why ,  sir ,  cobble you . 	cobble you ,  sir . 
thou art a cobbler ,  art thou ? 	you’re a cobbler ,  are you ? 
truly ,  sir ,  all that I live by is with the awl . 	sir ,  I make my living using an awl . 
I meddle with no tradesman’s matters nor women’s matters ,  but withal I am indeed ,  sir ,  a surgeon to old shoes . 	I’m a surgeon to old shoes . 
when they are in great danger ,  I recover them . 	when they’re endangered ,  I save them . 
as proper men as ever trod upon neat’s leather have gone upon my handiwork . 	the noblest men who ever walked on leather have walked on my handiwork . 
but wherefore art not in thy shop today ? 	but why aren’t you in your shop today ? 
why dost thou lead these men about the streets ? 	why are you leading these men through the streets ? 
truly ,  sir ,  to wear out their shoes to get myself into more work . 	well ,  to wear out their shoes and get myself more work . 
wherefore rejoice ? 	why would you celebrate it ? 
what conquest brings he home ? 	what victory does he bring home ? 
what tributaries follow him to Rome To grace in captive bonds his chariot wheels ? 	what foreign lands has he conquered and captive foreigners chained to his chariot wheels ? 
th' abuse of greatness is when it disjoins Remorse from power . 	rulers abuse their power when they separate it from compassion . 
so Caesar may . 	caesar might act like that . 
then ,  lest he may ,  prevent . 	therefore ,  in case he does ,  we must hold him back . 
and since the quarrel Will bear no color for the thing he is ,  Fashion it thus: that what he is ,  augmented ,  Would run to these and these extremities . 	and since our quarrel is with his future behavior ,  not what he does now ,  I must frame the argument like this: if his position is furthered ,  his character will fulfill these predictions . 
the taper burneth in your closet ,  sir . 	the candle is burning in your study ,  sir . 
searching the window for a flint ,  I found This paper ,  thus sealed up ,  and I am sure It did not lie there when I went to bed . 	while I was looking for a flint to light it ,  I found this paper on the window ,  sealed up like this ,  and I’m sure it wasn’t there when I went to bed . 
get you to bed again . 	go back to bed . 
It is not day . 	It isn’t daybreak yet . 
Is not tomorrow ,  boy ,  the ides of March ? 	Is tomorrow the 15th of March ,  boy ? 
I know not ,  sir . 	I don’t know ,  sir . 
look in the calendar and bring me word . 	check the calendar and come tell me . 
I will ,  sir . 	I will ,  sir . 
sir ,  March is wasted fifteen days . 	sir ,  fifteen days of March have gone by . 
tis good . 	good . 
go to the gate . 	go to the gate . 
somebody knocks . 	somebody’s knocking . 
since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar ,  I have not slept . 	I haven’t slept since Cassius first began to turn me against Caesar . 
Is he alone ? 	Is he alone ? 
do you know them ? 	do you know them ? 
let 'em enter . 	let them in . 
o conspiracy ,  Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night When evils are most free ? 	oh ,  conspiracy ,  are you ashamed to show your face even at night ,  when evil things are most free ? 
o ,  then by day Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough To mask thy monstrous visage ? 	If so ,  when it’s day ,  where are you going to find a cave dark enough to hide your monstrous face ? 
hide it in smiles and affability . 	Instead ,  hide your true face behind smiles and friendliness . 
I think we are too bold upon your rest . 	I’m afraid we’re intruding too boldly on your sleep time . 
good morrow ,  Brutus . 	good morning ,  Brutus . 
do we trouble you ? 	are we bothering you ? 
I have been up this hour ,  awake all night . 	I’ve been up all night . 
know I these men that come along with you ? 	do I know these men who are with you ? 
this is Trebonius . 	this is Trebonius . 
he is welcome hither . 	he’s welcome here . 
this ,  Decius Brutus . 	this is Decius Brutus . 
he is welcome too . 	he’s welcome too . 
this ,  Casca . 	this is Casca . 
this ,  Cinna . 	this is Cinna . 
and this ,  Metellus Cimber . 	and this is Metellus Cimber . 
they are all welcome . 	they’re all welcome . 
what watchful cares do interpose themselves Betwixt your eyes and night ? 	what worries have kept you awake tonight ? 
shall I entreat a word ? 	can I have a word with you ? 
here lies the east . 	here’s the east . 
doth not the day break here ? 	won’t the dawn come from here ? 
no . 	no . 
you shall confess that you are both deceived . 	you’re both wrong . 
and let us swear our resolution . 	and let us swear to our resolution . 
no ,  not an oath . 	no ,  let’s not swear an oath . 
so let high - sighted tyranny range on Till each man drop by lottery . 	then we can let this ambitious tyrant continue unchallenged until each of us is killed at his whim . 
but if these— As I am sure they do—bear fire enough To kindle cowards and to steel with valor The melting spirits of women ,  then ,  countrymen ,  What need we any spur but our own cause To prick us to redress ? 	but if we have reasons that are strong enough to ignite cowards into action and to make weak women brave—and I think we do—then ,  countrymen ,  what else could we possibly need to spur us to action ? 
what other bond Than secret Romans that have spoke the word And will not palter ? 	what bond do we need other than that of discreet Romans who have said what they’re going to do and won’t back down ? 
and what other oath Than honesty to honesty engaged ,  That this shall be ,  or we will fall for it ? 	and what oath do we need other than that we honest men have told each other that this will happen or we will die trying ? 
swear priests and cowards and men cautelous ,  Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs . 	swearing is for priests ,  cowards ,  overly cautious men ,  feeble old people ,  and those long - suffering weaklings who welcome abuse . 
unto bad causes swear Such creatures as men doubt . 	only men whom you wouldn’t trust anyway would swear oaths ,  and for the worst reasons . 
but do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise ,  Nor th' insuppressive mettle of our spirits ,  To think that or our cause or our performance Did need an oath ,  when every drop of blood That every Roman bears—and nobly bears— Is guilty of a several bastardy If he do break the smallest particle Of any promise that hath passed from him . 	don’t spoil the justness and virtue of our endeavor nor weaken our own irrepressible spirits by thinking that we need a binding oath ,  when the blood that every noble Roman contains within him would be proven bastard’s blood if he broke the smallest part of any promise he had made . 
but what of Cicero ? 	but what about Cicero ? 
shall we sound him ? 	should we see what he thinks ? 
I think he will stand very strong with us . 	I think he will stand strong with us . 
let us not leave him out . 	let’s not leave him out . 
no ,  by no means . 	no ,  by no means . 
o ,  let us have him ,  for his silver hairs Will purchase us a good opinion And buy men’s voices to commend our deeds . 	yes ,  we should get his support ,  for his mature presence will make others think well of us and speak out in support of our actions . 
It shall be said his judgment ruled our hands . 	they’ll assume that Cicero ,  with his sound judgment ,  ordered the actions . 
o ,  name him not . 	no ,  don’t even mention him . 
let us not break with him ,  For he will never follow anything That other men begin . 	he’ll never follow anything that other men have started . 
then leave him out . 	then leave him out . 
Indeed he is not fit . 	Indeed ,  he’s not right for this . 
decius ,  well urged . 	good point ,  Decius . 
I think it is not meet Mark Antony ,  so well beloved of Caesar ,  Should outlive Caesar . 	I don’t think it would be wise to let Mark Antony ,  whom Caesar is so fond of ,  outlive Caesar . 
we shall find of him A shrewd contriver . 	we’d find that he was a dangerous plotter . 
and ,  you know ,  his means ,  If he improve them ,  may well stretch so far As to annoy us all; which to prevent ,  Let Antony and Caesar fall together . 	and as you know ,  his connections ,  if he put them to good use ,  might be enough to hurt us all . 
our course will seem too bloody ,  Caius Cassius ,  To cut the head off and then hack the limbs ,  Like wrath in death and envy afterwards ,  For Antony is but a limb of Caesar . 	our action will seem too bloody if we cut off Caesar’s head and then hack at his arms and legs too ,  Caius Cassius—because Mark Antony is merely one of Caesar’s arms . 
let us be sacrificers but not butchers ,  Caius . 	let’s be sacrificers but not butchers ,  Caius . 
we all stand up against the spirit of Caesar ,  And in the spirit of men there is no blood . 	we’re all against what Caesar stands for ,  and there’s no blood in that . 
oh ,  that we then could come by Caesar’s spirit And not dismember Caesar ! 	oh ,  how I wish we could oppose Caesar’s spirit—his overblown ambition—and not hack up Caesar himself ! 
but ,  alas ,  Caesar must bleed for it . 	but ,  unfortunately ,  Caesar has to bleed if we’re going to stop him . 
and ,  gentle friends ,  Let’s kill him boldly but not wrathfully . 	noble friends ,  let’s kill him boldly but not with anger . 
let’s carve him as a dish fit for the gods ,  Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds . 	let’s carve him up like a dish fit for the gods ,  not chop him up like a carcass fit for dogs . 
and let our hearts ,  as subtle masters do ,  Stir up their servants to an act of rage And after seem to chide 'em . 	let’s be angry only long enough to do the deed ,  and then let’s act like we’re disgusted by what we had to do . 
this shall make Our purpose necessary and not envious ,  Which so appearing to the common eyes ,  We shall be called purgers ,  not murderers . 	this will make our actions seem practical and not vengeful . 
If he love Caesar ,  all that he can do Is to himself: take thought and die for Caesar . 	If he loves Caesar ,  then he can only hurt himself—by grieving and dying for Caesar . 
and that were much he should ,  for he is given To sports ,  to wildness and much company . 	and I’d be surprised if he even did that ,  for he prefers sports ,  fun ,  and friends . 
there is no fear in him . 	there’s nothing to fear in him . 
peace ! 	quiet ! 
count the clock . 	count how many times the clock chimes . 
the clock hath stricken three . 	the clock struck three . 
tis time to part . 	It’s time to leave . 
It may be ,  these apparent prodigies ,  The unaccustomed terror of this night ,  And the persuasion of his augurers May hold him from the Capitol today . 	It might happen that these strange signs ,  the unusual terror of this night ,  and the urgings of his fortune - tellers will keep him away from the Capitol today . 
never fear that . 	don’t worry about that . 
If he be so resolved ,  I can o'ersway him . 	If he’s reluctant ,  I can convince him . 
for he loves to hear That unicorns may be betrayed with trees ,  And bears with glasses ,  elephants with holes ,  Lions with toils ,  and men with flatterers . 	he loves to hear me tell him how men can be snared by flatterers ,  just like unicorns can be captured in trees ,  elephants in holes ,  and lions with nets . 
but when I tell him he hates flatterers ,  He says he does ,  being then most flatterèd . 	when I tell him he hates flatterers ,  he agrees ,  just at the moment when I’m flattering him the most . 
let me work . 	let me work on him . 
for I can give his humor the true bent ,  And I will bring him to the Capitol . 	I can put him in the right mood ,  and I’ll bring him to the Capitol . 
nay ,  we will all of us be there to fetch him . 	no ,  we’ll all go there to bring him . 
by the eighth hour . 	by eight o'clock . 
Is that the uttermost ? 	Is that the latest we can do it ? 
caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard ,  Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey . 	caius Ligarius doesn’t like Caesar ,  who berated him for speaking well of Pompey . 
I wonder none of you have thought of him . 	I wonder that none of you thought about getting his support . 
now ,  good Metellus ,  go along by him . 	good Metellus ,  go to him now . 
he loves me well ,  and I have given him reasons . 	he likes me ,  and I’ve given him good reason to . 
send him but hither and I’ll fashion him . 	just send him here ,  and I’ll persuade him . 
the morning comes upon ’s . 	the morning is approaching . 
we’ll leave you ,  Brutus . 	we’ll leave ,  Brutus . 
and ,  friends ,  disperse yourselves . 	friends ,  go your separate ways . 
but all remember What you have said ,  and show yourselves true Romans . 	but all of you ,  remember what you’ve said and prove yourselves true Romans . 
good gentlemen ,  look fresh and merrily . 	good gentlemen ,  look like you’re rested and happy . 
and so good morrow to you every one . 	and so ,  good morning to all of you . 
boy ! 	boy ! 
lucius ! —Fast asleep ? 	lucius ! 
It is no matter . 	fast asleep ? 
enjoy the honey - heavy dew of slumber . 	well ,  enjoy the sweetness of deep sleep . 
therefore thou sleep’st so sound . 	that’s why you sleep so soundly . 
brutus ,  my lord . 	brutus ,  my lord . 
portia ,  what mean you ? 	portia ,  what are you doing awake ? 
It is not for your health thus to commit Your weak condition to the raw ,  cold morning . 	It isn’t good for your health to expose your weak body to the raw ,  cold morning . 
nor for yours neither . 	It’s not good for your health ,  either . 
y' have ungently ,  Brutus ,  Stole from my bed . 	you rudely snuck out of bed . 
and yesternight ,  at supper ,  You suddenly arose and walked about ,  Musing and sighing ,  with your arms across ,  And when I asked you what the matter was ,  You stared upon me with ungentle looks . 	and last night at dinner ,  you got up abruptly and paced back and forth with your arms crossed ,  brooding and sighing ,  and when I asked you what was the matter ,  you gave me a dirty look . 
I urged you further ,  then you scratched your head And too impatiently stamped with your foot . 	I asked you again ,  and you scratched your head and stamped your foot impatiently . 
yet I insisted; yet you answered not ,  But with an angry wafture of your hand Gave sign for me to leave you . 	I still insisted on knowing what the matter was ,  but you wouldn’t answer me ,  instead giving me an angry wave of your hand and telling me to leave you alone . 
dear my lord ,  Make me acquainted with your cause of grief . 	my dear lord ,  tell me what’s bothering you . 
and do you now strew flowers in his way That comes in triumph over Pompey’s blood ? 	and now you toss flowers in the path of Caesar ,  who comes in triumph over Pompey’s defeated sons ? 
be gone ! 	go home ! 
run to your houses ,  fall upon your knees ,  Pray to the gods to intermit the plague That needs must light on this ingratitude . 	run to your houses ,  fall on your knees ,  and pray to the gods to spare you the pain that you deserve for such ingratitude . 
go ,  go ,  good countrymen ,  and for this fault ,  Assemble all the poor men of your sort ,  Draw them to Tiber banks ,  and weep your tears Into the channel till the lowest stream Do kiss the most exalted shores of all . 	go ,  go ,  good countrymen ,  and to make up for having done wrong ,  gather up all the poor men like yourselves ,  lead them to the Tiber ,  and weep into the river until it overflows its banks . 
go you down that way towards the Capitol . 	you go down toward the Capitol ,  and I’ll go this way . 
this way will I .  Disrobe the images If you do find them decked with ceremonies . 	undress the statues if they’re decorated in honor of Caesar . 
may we do so ? 	can we do that ? 
I’ll about And drive away the vulgar from the streets . 	I’ll walk around and force the commoners off the streets . 
so do you too ,  where you perceive them thick . 	you do the same ,  wherever the crowds are thick . 
these growing feathers plucked from Caesar’s wing Will make him fly an ordinary pitch ,  Who else would soar above the view of men And keep us all in servile fearfulness . 	If we take away Caesar’s support ,  he’ll have to come back down to earth; otherwise ,  he’ll fly too high and keep the rest of us in a state of fear and obedience . 
I am not well in health ,  and that is all . 	I’m not feeling well—that’s all . 
brutus is wise ,  and were he not in health ,  He would embrace the means to come by it . 	you’re smart ,  though ,  and if you were sick ,  you’d take what you needed to get better . 
why ,  so I do . 	I’m doing so . 
good Portia ,  go to bed . 	good Portia ,  go to bed . 
Is Brutus sick ? 	are you sick ? 
and is it physical To walk unbracèd and suck up the humors Of the dank morning ? 	and is it healthy to walk uncovered and breathe in the dampness of the morning ? 
what ,  is Brutus sick ,  And will he steal out of his wholesome bed ,  To dare the vile contagion of the night And tempt the rheumy and unpurgèd air To add unto his sickness ? 	you’re sick ,  yet you sneak out of your warm bed and let the humid and disease - infested air make you sicker ? 
kneel not ,  gentle Portia . 	don’t kneel ,  noble Portia . 
you are my true and honorable wife ,  As dear to me as are the ruddy drops That visit my sad heart . 	you’re my true and honorable wife ,  as dear to me as the blood that runs through my sad heart . 
If this were true ,  then should I know this secret . 	If that were true ,  then I’d know your secret . 
I grant I am a woman ,  but withal A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife . 	I admit I’m only a woman ,  but nevertheless I’m the woman Lord Brutus took for his wife . 
I grant I am a woman ,  but withal A woman well - reputed ,  Cato’s daughter . 	I admit I’m only a woman ,  but I’m still a woman from a noble family—I’m Cato’s daughter . 
think you I am no stronger than my sex ,  Being so fathered and so husbanded ? 	do you really think I’m no stronger than the rest of my sex ,  with such a father and such a husband ? 
tell me your counsels . 	tell me your secrets . 
I will not disclose 'em . 	I won’t betray them . 
I have made strong proof of my constancy ,  Giving myself a voluntary wound Here in the thigh . 	I’ve proved my trustworthiness by giving myself a voluntary wound here in my thigh . 
can I bear that with patience ,  And not my husband’s secrets ? 	If I can bear that pain ,  then I can bear my husband’s secrets . 
o ye gods ,  Render me worthy of this noble wife ! 	oh ,  gods ,  make me worthy of this noble wife ! 
hark ,  hark ! 	listen ! 
one knocks . 	someone knocks . 
leave me with haste . 	leave me quickly . 
lucius ,  who’s that knocking ? 	lucius ,  who’s that knocking ? 
he is a sick man that would speak with you . 	here’s a sick man who wants to speak with you . 
would you were not sick ! 	how I wish you felt better ! 
I am not sick if Brutus have in hand Any exploit worthy the name of honor . 	I’m not sick if you’ve prepared some honorable exploit for me . 
such an exploit have I in hand ,  Ligarius ,  Had you a healthful ear to hear of it . 	Indeed ,  I would have such an exploit for you ,  Ligarius ,  if you were healthy enough to hear it . 
a piece of work that will make sick men whole . 	a deed that will make sick men healthy . 
but are not some whole that we must make sick ? 	but aren’t there some healthy men whom we have to make sick ? 
that must we also . 	that too . 
what it is ,  my Caius ,  I shall unfold to thee as we are going To whom it must be done . 	my dear Caius ,  I’ll explain the task at hand to you as we walk toward the man we must do it to . 
follow me ,  then . 	follow me ,  then . 
nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight . 	neither the sky nor the earth have been quiet tonight . 
thrice hath Calphurnia in her sleep cried out ,   “ Help ,  ho ! 	calphurnia cried out three times in her sleep ,   “ Help ,  someone ! 
they murder Caesar !  ” —Who’s within ? 	they’re murdering Caesar !  ”  Who’s there ? 
my lord . 	my lord ? 
go bid the priests do present sacrifice And bring me their opinions of success . 	go tell the priests to perform a sacrifice immediately ,  and bring me their interpretation of the results . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will ,  my lord . 
what mean you ,  Caesar ? 	what are you doing ,  Caesar ? 
think you to walk forth ? 	are you planning to go out ? 
you shall not stir out of your house today . 	you’re not leaving the house today . 
caesar shall forth . 	I will go out . 
the things that threatened me Ne'er looked but on my back . 	the things that threaten me have only seen my back . 
when they shall see The face of Caesar ,  they are vanishèd . 	when they see the face of Caesar ,  they will vanish . 
caesar ,  I never stood on ceremonies ,  Yet now they fright me . 	caesar ,  I never believed in omens ,  but now they frighten me . 
there is one within ,  Besides the things that we have heard and seen ,  Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch . 	a servant told me the night - watchmen saw horrid sights too ,  but different ones from what we heard and saw . 
a lioness hath whelpèd in the streets ,  And graves have yawned and yielded up their dead . 	a lioness gave birth in the streets ,  and graves cracked open and thrust out their dead . 
fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds In ranks and squadrons and right form of war ,  Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol . 	fierce ,  fiery warriors fought in the clouds in the usual formations of war—ranks and squadrons—until the clouds drizzled blood onto the Capitol . 
o Caesar ! 	oh ,  Caesar ! 
these things are beyond all use ,  And I do fear them . 	these things are beyond anything we’ve seen before ,  and I’m afraid . 
what can be avoided Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods ? 	how can we avoid what the gods want to happen ? 
yet Caesar shall go forth ,  for these predictions Are to the world in general as to Caesar . 	but I will go out ,  for these bad omens apply to the world in general as much as they do to me . 
when beggars die there are no comets seen . 	when beggars die there are no comets in the sky . 
the heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes . 	the heavens only announce the deaths of princes . 
cowards die many times before their deaths . 	cowards die many times before their deaths . 
the valiant never taste of death but once . 	the brave experience death only once . 
of all the wonders that I yet have heard ,  It seems to me most strange that men should fear ,  Seeing that death ,  a necessary end ,  Will come when it will come . 	of all the strange things I’ve ever heard ,  it seems most strange to me that men fear death ,  given that death ,  which can’t be avoided ,  will come whenever it wants . 
what say the augurers ? 	what do the priests say ? 
they would not have you to stir forth today . 	they don’t want you to go out today . 
plucking the entrails of an offering forth ,  They could not find a heart within the beast . 	they pulled out the guts of the sacrificed animal and couldn’t find its heart . 
the gods do this in shame of cowardice . 	the gods do this to test my bravery . 
caesar should be a beast without a heart If he should stay at home today for fear . 	they’re saying I’d be an animal without a heart if I stayed home today out of fear . 
no ,  Caesar shall not . 	so ,  I won’t . 
we are two lions littered in one day ,  And I the elder and more terrible . 	we’re two lions born on the same day in the same litter ,  and I’m the older and more terrible . 
and Caesar shall go forth . 	I will go out . 
alas ,  my lord ,  Your wisdom is consumed in confidence . 	alas ,  my lord ,  your confidence is getting the better of your wisdom . 
do not go forth today . 	don’t go out today . 
call it my fear That keeps you in the house ,  and not your own . 	say that it’s my fear that keeps you inside and not your own . 
we’ll send Mark Antony to the senate house ,  And he shall say you are not well today . 	we’ll send Mark Antony to the senate house ,  and he’ll say that you’re sick today . 
mark Antony shall say I am not well ,  And for thy humor I will stay at home . 	mark Antony will say I’m not well ,  and to please you I’ll stay at home . 
here’s Decius Brutus . 	here’s Decius Brutus . 
he shall tell them so . 	he’ll tell them so . 
caesar ,  all hail ! 	hail ,  Caesar ! 
good morrow ,  worthy Caesar . 	good morning ,  worthy Caesar . 
I come to fetch you to the senate house . 	I’ve come to take you to the senate house . 
and you are come in very happy time To bear my greeting to the senators And tell them that I will not come today . 	and you’ve come at a good time ,  so you can convey my greetings to the senators and tell them I won’t come today . 
shall Caesar send a lie ? 	would I send a lie ? 
have I in conquest stretched mine arm so far To be afraid to tell graybeards the truth ? 	have I accomplished so much in battle ,  but now I’m afraid to tell some old men the truth ? 
decius ,  go tell them Caesar will not come . 	decius ,  go tell them that Caesar won’t come . 
most mighty Caesar ,  let me know some cause ,  Lest I be laughed at when I tell them so . 	most mighty Caesar ,  give me some reason ,  so I won’t be laughed at when I tell them so . 
the cause is in my will . 	the reason is that it’s what I want . 
I will not come . 	I’m not coming . 
that is enough to satisfy the senate . 	that’s enough for the senate . 
but for your private satisfaction ,  Because I love you ,  I will let you know . 	but for your private satisfaction ,  because I love you ,  I’ll tell you . 
calphurnia here ,  my wife ,  stays me at home . 	calphurnia ,  my wife ,  is keeping me at home . 
and these does she apply for warnings and portents And evils imminent ,  and on her knee Hath begged that I will stay at home today . 	she takes these signs for warnings and predictions of terrible evils to come ,  and ,  on her knee ,  she begged me to stay home today . 
this dream is all amiss interpreted . 	this dream has been interpreted all wrong . 
It was a vision fair and fortunate . 	It was a good and lucky vision . 
your statue spouting blood in many pipes ,  In which so many smiling Romans bathed ,  Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck Reviving blood ,  and that great men shall press For tinctures ,  stains ,  relics ,  and cognizance . 	your statue spouting blood through many holes ,  in which many smiling Romans bathed ,  means that you’ll provide great Rome with sustaining blood ,  and that great men will strive to get some token of approval from your holy blood . 
this by Calphurnia’s dream is signified . 	this is what Calphurnia’s dream means . 
and this way have you well expounded it . 	you’ve offered an excellent interpretation . 
I have ,  when you have heard what I can say . 	I will have when you hear the rest of what I have to say . 
and know it now: the senate have concluded To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar . 	the senate has decided to give mighty Caesar a crown today . 
If you shall send them word you will not come ,  Their minds may change . 	If you send them word that you won’t come ,  they might change their minds . 
how foolish do your fears seem now ,  Calphurnia ! 	how foolish your fears seem now ,  Calphurnia ! 
I am ashamèd I did yield to them . 	I’m ashamed that I yielded to them . 
give me my robe ,  for I will go . 	give me my robe ,  because I’m going . 
and look ,  where Publius is come to fetch me . 	and look ,  here’s Publius ,  come to fetch me . 
good morrow ,  Caesar . 	good morning ,  Caesar . 
welcome ,  Publius . 	welcome ,  Publius . 
good morrow ,  Casca . —Caius Ligarius ,  Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy As that same ague which hath made you lean . 	caius Ligarius ,  I was never your enemy so much as the sickness that’s made you so thin . 
what is ’t o'clock ? 	what time is it ? 
caesar ,  ’tis strucken eight . 	caesar ,  the clock has struck eight . 
I thank you for your pains and courtesy . 	I thank you all for your trouble and courtesy . 
so to most noble Caesar . 	and to you ,  most noble Caesar . 
I am to blame to be thus waited for . 	I’m to blame for making you wait for me . 
now ,  Cinna . —Now ,  Metellus . —What ,  Trebonius ,  I have an hour’s talk in store for you . 	trebonius ! 
remember that you call on me today . 	remember to see me today . 
be near me ,  that I may remember you . 	stay near me so I’ll remember . 
caesar ,  I will . 	caesar ,  I will . 
good friends ,  go in and taste some wine with me . 	good friends ,  go in and have some wine with me . 
and we ,  like friends ,  will straightway go together . 	and we’ll leave together ,  like friends . 
calphurnia ! 	calphurnia ! 
peace ,  ho ! 	quiet ! 
caesar speaks . 	caesar’s talking . 
calphurnia ! 	calphurnia ! 
here ,  my lord . 	I’m here ,  my lord . 
caesar ,  my lord . 	yes ,  Caesar ? 
I shall remember . 	I’ll remember . 
when Caesar says ,   “ do this ,  ”  it is performed . 	when Caesar says  “ do this ,  ”  it is done . 
set on ,  and leave no ceremony out . 	continue ,  then ,  and don’t forget to perform all of the rituals . 
caesar ! 	caesar ! 
caesar ,  beware of Brutus . 	caesar ,  beware of Brutus . 
take heed of Cassius . 	watch Cassius . 
come not near Casca . 	don’t go near Casca . 
have an eye to Cinna . 	keep an eye on Cinna . 
trust not Trebonius . 	don’t trust Trebonius . 
mark well Metellus Cimber . 	pay attention to Metellus Cimber . 
decius Brutus loves thee not . 	decius Brutus doesn’t love you . 
thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius . 	you’ve wronged Caius Ligarius . 
there is but one mind in all these men ,  and it is bent against Caesar . 	these men all have one intention ,  and it’s directed against Caesar . 
If thou beest not immortal ,  look about you . 	If you aren’t immortal ,  watch those around you . 
security gives way to conspiracy . 	a sense of security opens the door to conspiracy . 
the mighty gods defend thee ! 	I pray that the mighty gods defend you ! 
thy lover ,       Artemidorus ”  Here will I stand till Caesar pass along ,  And as a suitor will I give him this . 	your friend ,       Artemidorus .  ”  I’ll stand here until Caesar passes by ,  and I’ll give him this as though it’s a petition . 
If thou read this ,  O Caesar ,  thou mayst live . 	If you read this ,  Caesar ,  you might live . 
If not ,  the Fates with traitors do contrive . 	If not ,  the Fates are on the side of the traitors . 
I prithee ,  boy ,  run to the senate house . 	boy ,  I beg you to run to the senate house . 
stay not to answer me ,  but get thee gone . 	don’t stay to answer me—get going . 
I would have had thee there and here again Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there . 	I want you there and back again before I can even tell you what you should do there . 
madam ,  what should I do ? 	madam ,  what should I do ? 
run to the Capitol ,  and nothing else ? 	run to the Capitol and nothing else ? 
and so return to you ,  and nothing else ? 	and then return to you and nothing else ? 
yes ,  bring me word ,  boy ,  if thy lord look well ,  For he went sickly forth . 	yes ,  return and tell me if your master looks well ,  because he was sick when he left . 
and take good note What Caesar doth ,  what suitors press to him . 	and pay attention to what Caesar does and which men are close to him . 
hark ,  boy ! 	listen ,  boy ! 
what noise is that ? 	what’s that noise ? 
I hear none ,  madam . 	I don’t hear anything ,  madam . 
prithee ,  listen well . 	I beg you ,  listen well . 
sooth ,  madam ,  I hear nothing . 	truly ,  madam ,  I don’t hear anything . 
come hither ,  fellow . 	come here ,  you . 
which way hast thou been ? 	where are you coming from ? 
at mine own house ,  good lady . 	my own house ,  good lady . 
what is ’t o'clock ? 	what time is it ? 
about the ninth hour ,  lady . 	around nine o'clock ,  madam . 
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol ? 	has Caesar gone to the Capital yet ? 
madam ,  not yet . 	madam ,  not yet . 
I go to take my stand To see him pass on to the Capitol . 	I’m going to stand so I can see him pass on the way to the Capitol . 
thou hast some suit to Caesar ,  hast thou not ? 	you have some plea for Caesar ,  don’t you ? 
that I have ,  lady . 	yes ,  I do ,  lady . 
If it will please Caesar To be so good to Caesar as to hear me ,  I shall beseech him to befriend himself . 	If it pleases Caesar to be so good to himself as to hear me ,  I’ll try to get him to do what’s good for him . 
why ,  know’st thou any harm’s intended towards him ? 	why ,  do you know of any harm intended toward him ? 
none that I know will be; much that I fear may chance . 	nothing that I know for sure ,  but a lot that I’m afraid might happen . 
good morrow to you . 	good morning to you . 
here the street is narrow . 	the street is narrow here . 
the throng that follows Caesar at the heels ,  Of senators ,  of praetors ,  common suitors ,  Will crowd a feeble man almost to death . 	the crowd that follows Caesar at his heels—senators ,  justices ,  common petitioners—will suffocate a feeble man almost to death . 
I’ll get me to a place more void ,  and there Speak to great Caesar as he comes along . 	I’ll move to a more open place and there speak to great Caesar as he walks past . 
I must go in . 	I must go in . 
ay ,  Caesar ,  but not gone . 	yes ,  Caesar ,  but it’s not gone yet . 
o Caesar ,  read mine first ,  for mine’s a suit That touches Caesar nearer . 	oh ,  Caesar ,  read mine first ,  for my petition affects you more directly . 
read it ,  great Caesar . 	read it ,  great Caesar . 
what touches us ourself shall be last served . 	whatever pertains to myself I will deal with last . 
delay not ,  Caesar . 	don’t delay ,  Caesar . 
read it instantly . 	read it instantly . 
what ,  is the fellow mad ? 	what ,  is the man insane ? 
weapons ,  arms ? 	you have weapons ? 
what’s the matter here ? 	what’s going on here ? 
keep peace ,  upon your lives . 	stop it ,  I order you . 
he dies that strikes again . 	the next person to strike again dies . 
what is the matter ? 	what’s going on here ? 
the messengers from our sister and the king . 	these are the messengers from my sister and the king . 
what is your difference ? 	what are you fighting about ? 
speak . 	tell me . 
I am scarce in breath ,  my lord . 	I’m out of breath ,  sir . 
a tailor made thee . 	a tailor made you . 
thou art a strange fellow . 	that’s an odd thing to say . 
a tailor make a man ? 	how can a tailor make a person ? 
ay ,  a tailor ,  sir . 	definitely a tailor ,  sir . 
a stone - cutter or painter could not have made him so ill though they had been but two years o' th' trade . 	a sculptor or a painter couldn’t have screwed him up as bad as that ,  even as an apprentice . 
speak yet . 	but tell me what you’re fighting about . 
peace ,  sirrah ! 	calm down . 
you beastly knave ,  know you no reverence ? 	don’t you have any manners ,  you savage ? 
yes ,  sir ,  but anger hath a privilege . 	yes ,  sir ,  but not when I’m enraged . 
why art thou angry ? 	why are you enraged ? 
smile you my speeches as I were a fool ? 	are you laughing at what I say ,  as if I were a fool ? 
why ,  art thou mad ,  old fellow ? 	are you insane ,  old man ? 
why dost thou call him  “ knave ”  ? 	why are you calling him a jerk ? 
what’s his offense ? 	what did he do to you ? 
his countenance likes me not . 	I don’t like his face . 
no more perchance does mine ,  nor his ,  nor hers . 	but maybe you don’t like mine ,  or his ,  or hers either . 
this is some fellow ,  Who ,  having been praised for bluntness ,  doth affect A saucy roughness and constrains the garb Quite from his nature . 	this is a guy who’s been praised for his honest bluntness ,  and who now insolently pretends to be plainspoken and twists the natural meanings of words . 
he cannot flatter ,  he . 	no flattery for him ,  no sir ! 
an honest mind and plain ,  he must speak truth . 	he’s honest ,  he’s got to speak the truth . 
an they will take it ,  so . 	If people take what he says ,  fine . 
If not ,  he’s plain . 	If not ,  he’s got truth on his side ! 
sir ,  in good faith ,  or in sincere verity ,  Under th' allowance of your great aspect ,  Whose influence ,  like the wreath of radiant fire On flickering Phoebus' front—      What mean’st by this ? 	dearest ,  kindest ,  most honorable sir ,  may I say ,  with your esteemed approval ,  which is lit up by the illuminating radiance of the sun - god Phoebus ,  that— What do you mean by that ? 
to go out of my dialect ,  which you discommend so much . 	I tried to stop speaking plainly ,  since you dislike plain speech so much . 
I know ,  sir ,  I am no flatterer . 	sir ,  I know I’m not a flatterer . 
I never gave him any . 	I never offended him at all . 
none of these rogues and cowards But Ajax is their fool . 	these cowards manage to make fools of brave men . 
call not your stocks for me . 	don’t put me in the stocks . 
I serve the king ,  On whose employment I was sent to you . 	I serve the king ,  who sent me here . 
you shall do small respect ,  show too bold malice Against the grace and person of my master ,  Stocking his messenger . 	If you put me in the stocks you’ll insult him both as a king and as a man . 
fetch forth the stocks ! 	bring out the stocks ! 
as I have life and honor ,  there shall he sit till noon . 	I swear on my life and honor ,  he’ll sit here in the stocks until noon . 
till noon ? 	only until noon ,  my lord ? 
till night ,  my lord ,  and all night too . 	no ,  the whole day ,  and all night too . 
why ,  madam ,  if I were your father’s dog ,  You should not use me so . 	ma'am ,  you wouldn’t treat me like this if I were your father’s dog . 
sir ,  being his knave ,  I will . 	but since you’re his scoundrel servant ,  I will . 
this is a fellow of the selfsame color Our sister speaks of . —Come ,  bring away the stocks ! 	this guy is exactly the kind of person your sister warned us about . —Come on ,  bring in the stocks ,  now ! 
let me beseech your grace not to do so . 	I beg you not to do this ,  my lord . 
his fault is much ,  and the good king his master Will check him for ’t . 	he’s done wrong ,  and his master the king will punish him for it . 
the king his master needs must take it ill ,  That he ,  so slightly valued in his messenger ,  Should have him thus restrained . 	the king will be offended to find out that his messenger is so badly treated . 
I’ll answer that . 	I’ll take responsibility for that . 
my sister may receive it much more worse To have her gentleman abused ,  assaulted For following her affairs . —Put in his legs . 	my sister would be much more offended to have her trusted messenger abused and assaulted just for carrying out her orders . —Put his legs in the stocks . 
I am sorry for thee ,  friend . 	I’m sorry ,  my friend . 
I’ll entreat for thee . 	I’ll try talking to him again . 
pray you do not ,  sir . 	please don’t ,  sir . 
a good man’s fortune may grow out at heels . 	even good men have bad luck . 
give you good morrow . 	have a good morning . 
the duke’s to blame in this . 	It’s wrong for the duke to do this . 
twill be ill taken . 	the king will be angry with him . 
obey you ,  love you ,  and most honor you . 	honor you . 
haply when I shall wed That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry Half my love with him ,  half my care and duty . 	hopefully when I get married ,  I’ll give my husband half my love and half my sense of duty . 
sure ,  I shall never marry like my sisters ,  To love my father all . 	I’m sure I’ll never get married in the way my sisters say they’re married ,  loving their father only . 
but goes thy heart with this ? 	but do you mean what you’re saying ? 
ay ,  good my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
so young and so untender ? 	so young and so cruel ? 
so young ,  my lord ,  and true . 	so young ,  my lord ,  and honest . 
let it be so . 	then that’s the way it’ll be . 
thy truth then be thy dower . 	the truth will be all the inheritance you get . 
the barbarous Scythian ,  Or he that makes his generation messes To gorge his appetite ,  shall to my bosom Be as well neighbored ,  pitied ,  and relieved As thou my sometime daughter . 	foreign savages who eat their own children for dinner will be as close to my heart as you ,  ex - daughter of mine . 
good my liege— Peace ,  Kent . 	but sir— Be quiet ,  Kent . 
I heard myself proclaimed ,  And by the happy hollow of a tree Escaped the hunt . 	I heard myself declared an outlaw and escaped capture by hiding in the trunk of a hollow tree . 
no port is free ,  no place That guard and most unusual vigilance Does not attend my taking . 	every town and port is crawling with henchmen on the lookout ,  waiting to capture me . 
my face I’ll grime with filth ,  Blanket my loins ,  elf all my hair in knots ,  And with presented nakedness outface The winds and persecutions of the sky . 	I’ll smear my face with filth ,  put on a loincloth ,  make my hair matted and tangled ,  and face the bad weather wearing almost nothing . 
poor Turlygod !  ”   “ Poor Tom !  ” — That’s something yet . 	well ,  at least that’s something . 
edgar I nothing am . 	as Edgar ,  I’m nothing at all . 
tis strange that they should so depart from home ,  And not send back my messenger . 	It’s strange that Regan and her husband left their house without sending back my messenger . 
as I learned ,  The night before there was no purpose in them Of this remove . 	according to what I heard ,  they had no travel plans as of last night . 
ha ! 	what’s this ? 
makest thou this shame thy pastime ? 	are you sitting around in this humiliation to amuse yourself ? 
no ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ! 
look ,  he wears cruel garters . 	that’s a nasty garter belt . 
horses are tied by the heads ,  dogs and bears by the neck ,  monkeys by the loins ,  and men by the legs . 	you tie up horses by their heads ,  dogs and bears by their necks ,  monkeys by their waists ,  and humans by their legs . 
It is both he and she: Your son and daughter . 	your daughter and son - in - law . 
no . 	no . 
yes . 	yes . 
no ,  no ,  they would not . 	no ,  no ,  they wouldn’t . 
yes ,  they have . 	yes ,  they have . 
by Jupiter ,  I swear  “ No .  ”  By Juno ,  I swear  “ Ay .  ”     They durst not do ’t . 	by the god Jupiter above ,  I swear  “ No .  ”  By Jupiter’s wife Juno ,  I swear  “ Yes .  ”  They wouldn’t dare . 
they could not ,  would not do ’t . 	they couldn’t ,  they wouldn’t . 
tis worse than murder To do upon respect such violent outrage . 	It’s worse than murder to humiliate a king’s messenger like this . 
my lord ,  when at their home I did commend your highness' letters to them . 	my lord ,  when I arrived at their home I gave them your letter . 
he raised the house with loud and coward cries . 	he woke up the whole house with his loud and cowardly screams . 
your son and daughter found this trespass worth The shame which here it suffers . 	that’s why your daughter and son - in - law are punishing me shamefully . 
fathers that wear rags  Do make their children blind . 	fathers who wear rags Make their children neglect them . 
but fathers that bear bags  Shall see their children kind . 	but fathers who are rich Make their children kind . 
fortune ,  that arrant whore ,   Ne'er turns the key to th' poor . 	lady Luck is a fickle whore And never gives the poor a break . 
but for all this thou shalt have as many dolors for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year . 	but despite all this ,  your daughters will give you a lot of money—or do I mean pain ? —in the coming year . 
o ,  how this mother swells up toward my heart ! 	I feel my stomach squeezing up against my heart . 
with the earl ,  sir ,  here within . 	Inside ,  sir ,  with the earl . 
follow me not . 	don’t follow me . 
stay here . 	stay here . 
made you no more offense but what you speak of ? 	you didn’t do anything else to earn this punishment ? 
none . 	nothing . 
how chance the king comes with so small a train ? 	tell me ,  why did the king arrive with such a small entourage ? 
an thou hadst been set i' th' stocks for that question ,  thou’dst well deserved it . 	If they’d put you in the stocks for asking that question ,  you would’ve deserved it . 
why ,  Fool ? 	why ,  Fool ? 
we’ll set thee to school to an ant to teach thee there’s no laboring i' th' winter . 	you need to learn what ants know well about winter—there’s no point in slaving away if there’s no hope for profit . 
all that follow their noses are led by their eyes but blind men ,  and there’s not a nose among twenty but can smell him that’s stinking . 	everyone can see that ,  and even blind men can smell the stench of his misery now . 
let go thy hold when a great wheel runs down a hill ,  lest it break thy neck with following it . 	when you see a huge wheel rolling down a hill ,  you shouldn’t try to hold on to it or it’ll break your neck . 
but the great one that goes up the hill ,  let him draw thee after . 	but if you see a wheel going uphill ,  latch on for the ride . 
when a wise man gives thee better counsel ,  give me mine again . 	and when a wise man gives you better advice than I just did ,  give me my advice back again . 
I would have none but knaves follow it since a fool gives it . 	I only want idiots following my advice ,  the advice of a fool . 
that sir which serves and seeks for gain ,   And follows but for form ,   Will pack when it begins to rain  And leave thee in the storm . 	the gentleman who serves you only for profit And is only superficially loyal to you Will take off when it starts to rain And leave you alone in the storm . 
but I will tarry . 	but I’ll linger . 
the fool will stay . 	the fool will stay . 
and let the wise man fly . 	and let the wise man run away . 
where learned you this ,  Fool ? 	where did you learn that song ,  Fool ? 
not i' th' stocks ,  fool . 	not in the stocks ,  fool . 
deny to speak with me ? 	how can they refuse to speak with me ? 
they are sick ? 	they’re playing with me . 
they are weary ? 	these are tricks . 
the images of revolt and flying off . 	this is rebellion . 
my dear lord ,  You know the fiery quality of the duke ,  How unremoveable and fixed he is In his own course . 	my dear lord ,  you know how passionately stubborn the duke is . 
vengeance ,  plague ,  death ,  confusion ! 	damn it all to hell ! 
fiery ”  ? 	passionately ”  ? 
what  “ quality ”  ? 	what  “ passion ”  ? 
why ,  Gloucester ,  Gloucester ,  I’d speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife . 	gloucester ,  Gloucester ,  I want to speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife . 
well ,  my good lord ,  I have informed them so . 	my lord ,  I informed them as much . 
Informed them ”  ? 	Informed them ”  ? 
dost thou understand me ,  man ? 	do you understand what I’m saying ,  man ? 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
the king would speak with Cornwall . 	the king wants to speak with Cornwall . 
are they  “ informed ”  of this ? 	did you inform them of that ? 
my breath and blood ! 	this is unbelievable ! 
fiery ”  ? 	passionate ”  ? 
the  “ fiery ”  duke ? 	the  “ passionate ”  duke ? 
tell the hot duke that Lear— No ,  but not yet . 	tell the hot - headed duke that I… But no ,  not yet . 
maybe he is not well . 	maybe he’s not feeling well . 
I would have all well betwixt you . 	I just want everything to be all right between you . 
o me ,  my heart ,  my rising heart ! 	oh ,  my heart ,  my heart is rising into my throat ! 
but down . 	stay down ,  heart . 
good morrow to you both . 	that’s right ,  uncle ,  talk to your heart ,  like the  Good morning to you both . 
hail to your grace . 	hail to your majesty . 
I am glad to see your highness . 	I’m glad to see your highness . 
regan ,  I think you are . 	I believe you are ,  Regan . 
I know what reason I have to think so: if thou shouldst not be glad ,  I would divorce me from thy mother’s tomb ,  Sepulchring an adultress . 	you know why I think so ? 
belovèd Regan ,  Thy sister’s naught . 	my dear Regan ,  your sister’s not worth anything . 
o Regan ,  she hath tied Sharp - toothed unkindness ,  like a vulture ,  here . 	oh ,  Regan ,  she’s torn me apart with unkindness ,  like a vulture ,  right here . 
I pray you ,  sir ,  take patience . 	calm down ,  sir ,  please . 
say ,  how is that ? 	how do you mean ? 
I cannot think my sister in the least Would fail her obligation . 	I can’t believe my sister would neglect her obligations in any way . 
If ,  sir ,  perchance She have restrained the riots of your followers ,  'Tis on such ground and to such wholesome end As clears her from all blame . 	If she restrained your rowdy knights ,  she had such a good reason that you can’t blame her for it . 
my curses on her ! 	I curse her . 
o sir ,  you are old . 	sir ,  you’re old . 
nature in you stands on the very verge Of his confine . 	your life is stretched to its limit . 
you should be ruled and led By some discretion that discerns your state Better than you yourself . 	you should let others take care of you and submit to people who know better than you do what’s good for you . 
therefore I pray you That to our sister you do make return . 	please go back to Goneril’s house . 
say you have wronged her ,  sir . 	admit you were wrong . 
ask her forgiveness ? 	apologize ? 
on my knees I beg That you’ll vouchsafe me raiment ,  bed ,  and food .  ”  Good sir ,  no more . 	no more ,  please . 
these are unsightly tricks . 	these are ugly antics . 
return you to my sister . 	go back to my sister’s . 
fie ,  sir ,  fie ! 	shush ,  sir ,  please ! 
you nimble lightnings ,  dart your blinding flames Into her scornful eyes ! 	I hope lightning strikes her in the eyes ! 
Infect her beauty ,  You fen - sucked fogs drawn by the powerful sun ,  To fall and blister ! 	I hope poisonous swampy fog covers her face and ruins her complexion ! 
o the blessed gods ! 	oh ,  dear gods ! 
so will you wish on me when the rash mood is on . 	that’s how you’ll talk about me when you’re in this mood . 
her eyes are fierce ,  but thine Do comfort and not burn . 	her eyes are vicious ,  but yours are comforting . 
thy half o' th' kingdom hast thou not forgot ,  Wherein I thee endowed . 	you haven’t forgotten the half of a kingdom I gave you . 
good sir ,  to the purpose . 	sir ,  let’s get to the point . 
hence ,  and avoid my sight ! — So be my grave my peace as here I give Her father’s heart from her . —Call France . 	get out of my sight ! —I guess if she doesn’t love her father ,  then I’ll only have peace when I’m dead . —Call the King of France . 
call Burgundy . —    Cornwall and Albany ,  With my two daughters' dowers digest this third . 	call the Duke of Burgundy . 
let pride ,  which she calls plainness ,  marry her . 	If she wants to be proud ,  or  “ honest ,  ”  as she calls it ,  she can just marry her own pride . 
royal Lear ,  Whom I have ever honored as my king ,  Loved as my father ,  as my master followed ,  As my great patron thought on in my prayers— The bow is bent and drawn . 	king Lear ,  I’ve always honored you as king ,  loved you as my father ,  obeyed you as my master ,  and thanked you in my prayers— I’m furious and ready to snap . 
let it fall rather ,  though the fork invade The region of my heart . 	let your anger fall on me then ,  even if its sharpness pierces my heart . 
be Kent unmannerly When Lear is mad . 	kent can speak rudely when Lear goes mad . 
what wouldst thou do ,  old man ? 	what are you doing ,  old man ? 
think’st thou that duty shall have dread to speak When power to flattery bows ? 	when powerful kings cave in to flatterers ,  do you think loyal men will be afraid to speak out against it ? 
to plainness honor’s bound When majesty falls to folly . 	when a majestic king starts acting silly ,  then it’s my duty to be blunt . 
what trumpet’s that ? 	what’s that trumpet ? 
I know ’t—my sister’s . 	I know it . 
this approves her letter That she would soon be here . 	she’ll be here soon ,  just like her letter said . 
this is a slave whose easy borrowed pride Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows . — Out ,  varlet ,  from my sight ! 	this is a lowlife who basks in the reflection of the fading glory of the woman he works for . —Get out of my sight ,  scoundrel ! 
what means your grace ? 	what do you mean ,  your highness ? 
who stocked my servant ? 	who put my servant in the stocks ? 
regan ,  I have good hope Thou didst not know on ’t . —Who comes here ? 	regan ,  I hope you didn’t know anything about that . —Ah ,  who’s this ? 
o Regan ,  wilt thou take her by the hand ? 	why shouldn’t she take my hand ,  father ? 
how have I offended ? 	how exactly have I offended you ? 
I set him there ,  sir ,  but his own disorders Deserved much less advancement . 	I sent him there ,  sir ,  but his crimes deserved a worse punishment . 
you ! 	you ! 
did you ? 	you did it ? 
I pray you ,  father ,  being weak ,  seem so . 	please ,  father ,  since you’re weak ,  act like it . 
If till the expiration of your month ,  You will return and sojourn with my sister ,  Dismissing half your train ,  come then to me . 	get rid of half your knights and go back to spend the rest of your month with my sister . 
I am now from home ,  and out of that provision Which shall be needful for your entertainment . 	right now I’m away from home and I can’t provide you with proper care . 
return to her ,  and fifty men dismissed ? 	go back with her ? 
return with her ? 	go back with her ? 
why ,  the hot - blooded France that dowerless took Our youngest born—I could as well be brought To knee his throne ,  and ,  squirelike ,  pension beg To keep base life afoot . 	I might as well go before the King of France ,  who took my youngest daughter without a dowry ,  kneel before his throne ,  and beg him to give me a tiny pension to stay alive . 
return with her ? 	go back with her ? 
persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter To this detested groom . 	I’d rather be a slave or a packhorse for this hateful stablehand here . 
at your choice ,  sir . 	as you wish ,  sir . 
now ,  I prithee ,  daughter ,  do not make me mad . 	I beg you ,  daughter ,  don’t make me crazy . 
I will not trouble thee ,  my child . 	I won’t bother you . 
we’ll no more meet ,  no more see one another . 	we’ll never see each other again . 
but yet thou art my flesh ,  my blood ,  my daughter— Or rather a disease that’s in my flesh ,  Which I must needs call mine . 	but you’re still my child ,  my flesh and blood—or rather you’re a disease in my flesh ,  a disease I still have to call my own . 
thou art a boil ,  A plague - sore or embossèd carbuncle In my corrupted blood . 	you’re a pustule ,  a sore ,  a tumor digesting my bloodline . 
but I’ll not chide thee . 	but I’ll stop rebuking you . 
I do not bid the thunder - bearer shoot ,  Nor tell tales of thee to high - judging Jove . 	I won’t beg the gods to punish you ,  or caution you to fear their judgment . 
mend when thou canst . 	become a better
be better at thy leisure . 	person when you’re ready ,  if you’re inclined . 
I can be patient . 	I’ll wait patiently . 
I can stay with Regan ,  I and my hundred knights . 	meanwhile I’ll stay with Regan with my hundred knights . 
not altogether so ,  sir . 	It’s not quite that simple . 
I looked not for you yet ,  nor am provided For your fit welcome . 	I wasn’t expecting you ,  and I’m not ready to receive you . 
give ear ,  sir ,  to my sister . 	please hear what Goneril is saying . 
for those that mingle reason with your passion Must be content to think you old ,  and so— But she knows what she does . 	we’re trying to be reasonable while you’re so upset ,  and we understand that you’re old ,  and… But Goneril knows what she’s doing . 
I dare avouch it ,  sir . 	yes ,  I do . 
how ,  in one house ,  Should many people under two commands Hold amity ? 	how could so many people ,  under two masters ,  get along under one roof ? 
tis hard; almost impossible . 	It would be hard ,  almost impossible . 
why might not you ,  my lord ,  receive attendance From those that she calls servants ,  or from mine ? 	why couldn’t you be attended by my servants ,  or by Regan’s ? 
why not ,  my lord ? 	yes ,  why not ,  my lord ? 
If then they chanced to slack you ,  We could control them . 	then if they’re negligent ,  we could control them . 
If you will come to me— For now I spy a danger—I entreat you To bring but five and twenty . 	now that I think about the danger of these knights ,  if you come to stay with me ,  please bring no more than twenty - five of them with you . 
to no more Will I give place or notice . 	I won’t lodge any more than that under my roof . 
I gave you all— And in good time you gave it . 	I gave you everything— And it was about time too . 
made you my guardians ,  my depositaries ,  But kept a reservation to be followed With such a number . 	I made you de facto rulers of my kingdom on condition that I could keep a hundred knights of my own . 
what ,  must I come to you With five and twenty ,  Regan ? 	why should I now have to make do with only twenty - five ? 
said you so ? 	regan ,  is that what you said ? 
and speak ’t again ,  my lord . 	yes ,  I’ll say it again ,  my lord . 
no more with me . 	no more than twenty - five . 
not being the worst Stands in some rank of praise . 	not being the worst daughter deserves some praise ,  I guess . 
hear me ,  my lord . 	hear me out ,  my lord . 
what need you five and twenty ,  ten ,  or five To follow in a house where twice so many Have a command to tend you ? 	why do you need twenty - five knights ,  or ten ,  or even five ,  when you’re staying in a house with a staff of double that at your service ? 
what need one ? 	why do you need even one ? 
o ,  reason not the need ! 	oh ,  don’t ask me why I  “ need ”  them ! 
thou art a lady . 	you’re a well - dressed lady . 
If only to go warm were gorgeous ,  Why ,  nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear’st ,  Which scarcely keeps thee warm . 	If you dressed only to stay warm ,  you wouldn’t need these gorgeous clothes you’re wearing—which don’t keep you warm at all . 
but ,  for true need— You heavens ,  give me that patience ,  patience I need . 	oh ,  gods ,  give me patience ! 
you see me here ,  you gods ,  a poor old man ,  As full of grief as age ,  wretched in both . 	you see me here ,  gods ,  a grieving old man ,  as wretched in his grief as he is in his old age . 
If it be you that stir these daughters' hearts Against their father ,  fool me not so much To bear it tamely . 	If you’re the ones setting my daughters against me ,  don’t let me be foolish enough to take it lying down . 
no ,  you unnatural hags , 	man’s cheeks . 
I will have such revenges on you both That all the world shall—I will do such things— What they are yet I know not ,  but they shall be The terrors of the earth . 	no ,  you monstrous hags ,  I’ll get revenge on you both that will make the whole world… I will do such things—I don’t know what I’ll do exactly ,  but it’ll be devastating . 
you think I’ll weep ? 	you expect me to cry ? 
no ,  I’ll not weep . 	well ,  I won’t . 
I have full cause of weeping ,  but this heart Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws ,  Or ere I’ll weep . —O Fool ,  I shall go mad ! 	I have a good reason to cry ,  but my heart will splinter into a hundred thousand pieces before I let myself cry . —Oh ,  Fool ,  I’ll go mad ! 
let us withdraw . 	let’s go inside . 
twill be a storm . 	there’s going to be a storm . 
this house is little . 	this is a small house . 
the old man and his people Cannot be well bestowed . 	there’s no room for the old man and his followers . 
tis his own blame . 	It’s his fault that he’s all worked up like this . 
hath put himself from rest ,  And must needs taste his folly . 	he has to pay the price for his foolish actions . 
so am I purposed . 	that’s what I intend to do too . 
where is my lord of Gloucester ? 	where is Gloucester ? 
followed the old man forth . 	he followed the old man . 
he is returned . 	here he comes back . 
whither is he going ? 	where’s he going ? 
he calls to horse ,  but will I know not whither . 	he has called for his horse ,  but I don’t know where he’s headed . 
tis best to give him way . 	It’s best just to let him go . 
he leads himself . 	he won’t listen to anyone’s advice . 
for many miles about There’s scarce a bush . 	there’s hardly a bush for miles around . 
o sir ,  to wilful men ,  The injuries that they themselves procure Must be their schoolmasters . 	oh ,  sir ,  impetuous people learn their lessons from the consequences of their foolish actions . 
shut up your doors . 	lock the doors . 
he is attended with a desperate train . 	his attendants are desperate ,  violent men . 
and what they may incense him to ,  being apt To have his ear abused ,  wisdom bids fear . 	I’m afraid of what they might encourage him to do ,  considering the state he’s in . 
shut up your doors ,  my lord . 	lock the doors ,  my lord . 
tis a wild night . 	It’s a wild night . 
my Regan counsels well . 	regan gives good advice . 
come out o' th' storm . 	come in out of the storm . 
who’s there ,  besides foul weather ? 	who’s there ,  aside from this foul weather ? 
one minded like the weather ,  most unquietly . 	someone whose mood is as foul as the weather ,  very troubled . 
I know you . 	I know you . 
where’s the king ? 	where’s the king ? 
contending with the fretful elements . 	struggling with the wind and rain . 
bids the winds blow the earth into the sea Or swell the curlèd water 'bove the main ,  That things might change or cease . 	he’s shouting at the wind to blow the earth into the sea ,  or make the sea flood the earth—he wants to see the world return to primal chaos . 
tears his white hair ,  Which the impetuous blasts ,  with eyeless rage ,  Catch in their fury and make nothing of . 	he keeps tearing out his white hair ,  which the blindly raging winds catch up and blow away into nothingness . 
strives in his little world of man to outscorn The to - and - fro–conflicting wind and rain . 	small but brave in his surroundings ,  he’s trying to stand up against the wind and rain blowing back and forth . 
this night—wherein the cub - drawn bear would couch ,  The lion and the belly - pinchèd wolf Keep their fur dry—unbonneted he runs ,  And bids what will take all . 	he’s running bareheaded ,  calling for the end of the world ,  out there on a night like this ,  when even savage animals ravenous with hunger crawl under cover and hide . 
but who is with him ? 	but who’s with him ? 
none but the fool ,  who labors to outjest His heart - struck injuries . 	nobody but the fool ,  who’s trying to soothe the wounds in the king’s heart with jokes . 
sir ,  I do know you ,  And dare upon the warrant of my note Commend a dear thing to you . 	sir ,  I know you ,  and I trust you enough to share something very important with you . 
from France there comes a power Into this scattered kingdom ,  who already ,  Wise in our negligence ,  have secret feet In some of our best ports and are at point To show their open banner . 	some French agents are already at work in our main ports and are on the verge of declaring open war . 
now to you . 	now this is where you come in . 
I am a gentleman of blood and breeding ,  And from some knowledge and assurance offer This office to you . 	I’m a nobleman ,  and I know what I’m doing in assigning this job to you . 
I will talk further with you . 	let’s discuss it some more . 
give me your hand . 	let me shake your hand . 
have you no more to say ? 	do you have anything else to tell me ? 
rage ,  blow ! 	rage on ,  blow ! 
you cataracts and hurricanoes ,  spout Till you have drenched our steeples ,  drowned the cocks ! 	let tornadoes spew water until the steeples of our churches and the weathervanes are all drowned . 
you sulfurous and thought - executing fires ,  Vaunt - couriers of oak - cleaving thunderbolts ,  Singe my white head ! 	let quick sulfurous lightning ,  strong enough to split enormous trees ,  singe the white hair on my head . 
and thou ,  all - shaking thunder ,  Smite flat the thick rotundity o' th' world ,  Crack nature’s molds ,  all germens spill at once That make ingrateful man ! 	let thunder flatten the spherical world ,  crack open all the molds from which nature forms human beings ,  and spill all the seeds from which ungrateful humans grow ! 
o nuncle ,  court holy water in a dry house is better than this rainwater out o' door . 	oh ,  uncle ,  it’s better to smile and flatter indoors where it’s dry than get soaked out here . 
good nuncle ,  in ,  and ask thy daughters blessing . 	please ,  uncle ,  let’s go in and ask your daughters to forgive you . 
here’s a night pities neither wise man nor fool . 	this storm has no pity for either wise men or fools . 
rumble thy bellyful ! 	let thunder rumble ! 
spit ,  fire ! 	let lightning spit fire ! 
spout ,  rain ! 	let the rain spray ! 
nor rain ,  wind ,  thunder ,  fire are my daughters . 	the rain ,  the wind ,  the thunder and lightning are not my daughters . 
I tax not you ,  you elements ,  with unkindness . 	nature ,  I don’t accuse your weather of unkindness . 
why then ,  let fall Your horrible pleasure . 	so go ahead and have your terrifying fun . 
here I stand ,  your slave— A poor ,  infirm ,  weak ,  and despised old man . 	here I am ,  your slave—a poor ,  sick ,  weak ,  hated old man . 
he that has a house to put ’s head in has a good headpiece . 	anyone who has a house to cover his head has a good head on his shoulders . 
answer my life my judgment ,  Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least ,  Nor are those empty - hearted whose low sound Reverbs no hollowness . 	on my life I swear to you that your youngest daughter doesn’t love you least . 
kent ,  on thy life ,  no more . 	kent ,  if you want to stay alive ,  stop talking . 
out of my sight ! 	get out of my sight ! 
see better ,  Lear ,  and let me still remain The true blank of thine eye . 	learn to see better ,  Lear ,  and let me stay here where you can look to me for good advice . 
now ,  by Apollo— Now ,  by Apollo ,  King ,  Thou swear’st thy gods in vain . 	now ,  I swear by Apollo… By Apollo ,  King ,  you’re taking the names of the gods in vain . 
o vassal ! 	oh ,  you lowlife ! 
miscreant ! 	scum ! 
dear sir ,  forbear ! 	please stop ,  sir . 
hear me ,  recreant ! 	listen to me ,  you traitor . 
for there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths    in a glass . 	for there never was a pretty woman who didn’t like to preen in the mirror . 
no ,  I will be the pattern of all patience . 	no ,  I’ll be patient . 
I will say nothing . 	I won’t say a word . 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
marry ,  here’s grace and a codpiece—that’s a wise man and a fool . 	a wise man and a fool . 
let the great gods That keep this dreadful pudder o'er our heads Find out their enemies now . 	let the gods who stirred up this dreadful storm bring their enemies to light . 
some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest . 	It will give you some protection from this storm . 
repose you there ,  while I to this hard house— More harder than the stones whereof ’tis raised ,  Which even but now ,  demanding after you ,  Denied me to come in—return ,  and force Their scanted courtesy . 	they are harder than the stones the house is made of . 
my wits begin to turn . —   Come on ,  my boy . 	I’m starting to lose my mind . 
true ,  my good boy . —Come ,  bring us to this hovel . 	that’s true ,  my good boy . —Come on ,  take us to that hut . 
I’ll speak a prophecy ere I go . 	I’ll recite a prophecy before I go . 
then comes the time ,  who lives to see ’t ,  That going shall be used with feet . 	and whoever lives to see that day Will walk with his feet . 
this prophecy Merlin shall make ,  for I live before his time . 	this is the prophecy that the wizard
alack ,  alack ,  Edmund ,  I like not this unnatural dealing . 	oh ,  oh ,  Edmund ,  I don’t like this monstrous business . 
when I desire their leave that I might pity him ,  they took from me the use of mine own house ,  charged me on pain of their perpetual displeasure neither to speak of him ,  entreat for him ,  nor any way sustain him . 	when asked the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall if I could take pity on the king and shelter him from the storm ,  they took my house away from me and ordered me never to talk about him ,  lobby for him ,  or support him in any way . 
most savage and unnatural ! 	that’s uncivilized and unnatural ! 
go to ,  say you nothing . 	oh ,  be quiet . 
there’s a division betwixt the dukes . 	there’s a feud between the two dukes . 
tis dangerous to be spoken . 	It’s dangerous to talk about it . 
I have locked the letter in my closet . 	I’ve locked it up in my room . 
these injuries the king now bears will be revenged home . 	the humiliation that the king is suffering now will be revenged thoroughly . 
there’s part of a power already footed . 	armed forces have already landed . 
we must incline to the king . 	we have to take the king’s side . 
I will look him and privily relieve him . 	I’ll look for him and secretly help him . 
go you and maintain talk with the duke ,  that my charity be not of him perceived . 	you go and talk to the duke so he won’t notice I’m helping the king . 
If he ask for me ,  I am ill and gone to bed . 	If he asks to see me ,  tell him I’m sick and went to bed . 
though I die for it—as no less is threatened me—the king my old master must be relieved . 	even if I have to die—as they threaten—I have to help the king . 
there is some strange thing toward ,  Edmund . 	strange things are about to happen ,  Edmund . 
pray you ,  be careful . 	please be careful . 
this courtesy ,  forbid thee ,  shall the duke Instantly know ,  and of that letter too . 	and I’ll tell him about the letter too . 
the younger rises when the old doth fall . 	the young generation rises while the old one falls . 
here is the place ,  my lord . 	here’s the hut ,  my lord . 
good my lord ,  enter . 	please go inside . 
the tyranny of the open night’s too rough For nature to endure . 	the night’s too rough for humans to bear . 
let me alone . 	leave me for a bit . 
good my lord ,  enter here . 	my lord ,  here is the entrance . 
wilt break my heart ? 	will you break my heart ? 
I had rather break mine own . 	I’d rather break my own heart . 
good my lord ,  enter . 	now please go in . 
thou think’st ’tis much that this contentious storm Invades us to the skin . 	you think it’s a big deal that this fierce storm is soaking me to the skin . 
so ’tis to thee . 	It’s a big deal to you . 
but where the greater malady is fixed The lesser is scarce felt . 	but whenever you feel a larger pain ,  the smaller one disappears . 
thou’dst shun a bear ,  But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea Thou’dst meet the bear i' th' mouth . 	you would run away from a bear ,  but if the only way to run was into the stormy ocean ,  you’d turn around and confront the bear . 
when the mind’s free ,  The body’s delicate . 	when your mind is at peace ,  your body is sensitive to the elements . 
the tempest in my mind Doth from my senses take all feeling else Save what beats there—filial ingratitude . 	but this storm in my mind keeps me from feeling anything except what’s tormenting me—how ungrateful my children are ! 
Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand For lifting food to ’t ? 	Isn’t their ingratitude like the mouth biting the hand that feeds it ? 
but I will punish home . 	but I’ll punish them thoroughly . 
no ,  I will weep no more . 	no ,  I won’t cry any more . 
In such a night To shut me out ! 	Imagine them locking me out on a night like this ! 
pour on ,  I will endure . 	but let it rain; I’ll survive . 
In such a night as this ! 	on a night like this ! 
o Regan ,  Goneril ,  Your old kind father ,  whose frank heart gave all— Oh ,  that way madness lies . 	oh ,  Regan ,  Goneril ,  your kind old father whose generous heart gave you everything—Oh ,  if I think about that I’ll go mad . 
let me shun that . 	I want to avoid that . 
no more of that . 	no more of these thoughts . 
good my lord ,  enter here . 	my lord ,  please go inside here . 
prithee ,  go in thyself . 	go inside yourself . 
seek thine own ease . 	make yourself comfortable . 
this tempest will not give me leave to ponder On things would hurt me more . 	this storm protects me from thoughts that would hurt me more . 
but I’ll go in . 	but I’ll go in . 
expose thyself to feel what wretches feel ,  That thou mayst shake the superflux to them And show the heavens more just . 	go out and feel what the impoverished feel . 
come not in here ,  nuncle . 	don’t come in here ,  uncle ! 
here’s a spirit . 	there’s a spirit in here ! 
help me ,  help me ! 	help me ,  help me ! 
give me thy hand . 	give me your hand . 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
a spirit ,  a spirit . 	a ghost ,  a ghost ! 
he says his name’s Poor Tom . 	he says his name’s Poor Tom . 
what art thou that dost grumble there i' th' straw ? 	who are you ,  moaning in the hut like that ? 
come forth . 	come out . 
away ! 	go away ! 
the foul fiend follows me ! 	the devil’s after me ! 
through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind . 	the cold wind blows through the hawthorn trees . 
hum ! 	ha ! 
go to thy cold bed and warm thee . 	get into your cold beds and warm yourselves up . 
didst thou give all to thy two daughters ,  and art thou come to this ? 	did you give everything to your two daughters and end up like this ? 
bless thy five wits . 	bless your five senses ! 
tom’s a - cold . 	tom’s chilly . 
oh ,  do - de ,  do - de ,  do - de . 	oh do - de ,  do - de ,  do - de . 
bless thee from whirlwinds ,  star - blasting ,  and taking ! 	god protect you from tornadoes ,  evil stars ,  and diseases ! 
do Poor Tom some charity ,  whom the foul fiend vexes . 	take pity on Poor Tom ,  who is persecuted by the devil . 
there could I have him now—and there—and there again—and there . 	there ! … And over there ! … And over there ! 
what ,  has his daughters brought him to this pass ? — Couldst thou save nothing ? 	have his daughters made him crazy like this ? —Couldn’t you have kept something for yourself ? 
wouldst thou give 'em all ? 	did you have to give them everything ? 
nay ,  he reserved a blanket ,  else we had been all shamed . 	If he hadn’t ,  we’d all be embarrassed to look at him . 
now all the plagues that in the pendulous air Hang fated o'er men’s faults light on thy daughters ! 	then may your daughters be cursed with all the horrible fates that await sinners ! 
he hath no daughters ,  sir . 	he doesn’t have any daughters ,  sir . 
death ,  traitor ! 	like hell ! 
nothing could have subdued nature To such a lowness but his unkind daughters . 	nothing but cruel daughters could have degraded him like this . 
Is it the fashion that discarded fathers Should have thus little mercy on their flesh ? 	Is it fashionable now for neglected fathers to get so little pity ? 
twas this flesh begot Those pelican daughters . 	I’m the one who fathered those bloodsucking daughters . 
this cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen . 	this stormy night will turn us all into fools and madmen . 
take heed o' th' foul fiend . 	beware of the devil . 
obey thy parents ,  keep thy word’s justice ,  swear not ,  commit not with man’s sworn spouse ,  set not thy sweet heart on proud array . 	obey your parents ,  keep your word ,  don’t swear ,  don’t sleep with another man’s wife ,  and don’t covet flashy clothes . 
tom’s a -  cold . 	tom’s chilly . 
what hast thou been ? 	what were you before this ? 
wine loved I deeply ,  dice dearly ,  and in woman outparamoured the Turk . 	I loved wine and gambling ,  and had more women than a Turkish sultan keeps in his harem . 
still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind ,  says ,   “ Suum ,  mun ,  nonny .  ”  Dauphin my boy ,  my boy ,  cessez . 	the cold wind’s still blowing through the hawthorn tree . 
thou art the thing itself . 	look at him . 
unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor ,  bare ,  forked animal as thou art . —  Off ,  off ,  you lendings ! 	the human being unburdened by the trappings of civilization is no more than a poor ,  naked ,  two - legged animal like you . 
unbutton here . 	let me unbutton this . 
prithee ,  nuncle ,  be contented . 	please calm down ,  uncle . 
tis a naughty night to swim in . 	this is a nasty night to go swimming . 
now a little fire in a wild field were like an old lecher’s heart—a small spark ,  all the rest on ’s body cold . 	on a night like this a campfire in an empty field would be like the heart of a dirty old man—a tiny spark in a cold body . 
look ,  here comes a walking fire . 	look ,  here comes a walking fire . 
this is the foul fiend Flibbertigibbet . 	this is the devil Flibbertigibbet . 
he begins at curfew and walks till the first cock . 	he gets up at nightfall and wanders around till dawn . 
and aroint thee ,  witch ,  aroint thee ! 	and go away ,  witch ,  go away . 
how fares your grace ? 	how are you ,  your highness ? 
who’s there ? 	who are you ? 
what is ’t you seek ? 	what do you want ? 
what are you there ? 	who are you ? 
your names ? 	what are your names ? 
peace ,  Smulkin . 	calm down ,  Smulkin ,  you fiend ! 
modo he’s called ,  and Mahu . 	he’s called Modo and Mahu . 
poor Tom’s a - cold . 	poor Tom’s chilly . 
go in with me . 	come back to my house with me . 
my duty cannot suffer To obey in all your daughters' hard commands . 	I couldn’t bear to obey all of your daughters' harsh orders . 
though their injunction be to bar my doors And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you ,  Yet have I ventured to come seek you out And bring you where both fire and food is ready . 	they commanded me to lock my doors and leave you out in this merciless storm ,  but I’ve come out here to find you and take you where there’s warmth and food . 
first let me talk with this philosopher . —	first let me talk with this philosopher here . —
away ! 	now get out of here ! 
by Jupiter ,  This shall not be revoked . 	I swear by Jupiter I’ll never revoke this punishment . 
why ,  fare thee well ,  King . 	farewell ,  King . 
here’s France and Burgundy ,  my noble lord . 	here are the rulers of France and Burgundy ,  my lord . 
my lord of Burgundy . 	my lord the ruler of Burgundy ,  I’ll speak to you first . 
we first address towards you ,  who with this king Hath rivaled for our daughter . 	you’ve been competing with this king for my daughter . 
let me ask you one word in private . 	let me ask you something in private . 
canst thou blame him ? 	can you blame him ? 
his daughters seek his death . 	his daughters want to kill him . 
ah ,  that good Kent— He said it would be thus ,  poor banished man . 	ah ,  good old Kent said this would happen—that poor ,  banished man . 
thou say’st the king grows mad . 	you say the king is losing his mind . 
I’ll tell thee ,  friend ,  I am almost mad myself . 	let me tell you ,  my friend ,  I’m almost insane myself . 
I had a son ,  Now outlawed from my blood . 	I had a son ,  whom I’ve legally disowned . 
he sought my life ,  But lately ,  very late . 	he tried to kill me recently ,  very recently . 
I loved him ,  friend— No father his son dearer . 	I loved him ,  as much as any father ever loved his son . 
what a night’s this ! 	what a storm ! 
o ,  cry your mercy ,  sir . —        Tom’s a - cold . 	excuse me ,  sir . — Tom’s chilly . 
keep thee warm . 	stay warm . 
come let’s in all . 	come on ,  let’s all go inside . 
this way ,  my lord . 	this way ,  my lord . 
come ,  good Athenian . 	come on ,  my dear Greek philosopher . 
I will have my revenge ere I depart his house . 	I’ll get my revenge before I leave this house . 
how ,  my lord ,  I may be censured ,  that nature thus gives way to loyalty ,  something fears me to think of . 	I’m afraid to think how I’ll be criticized for letting my natural affection for my father give way to my loyalty to you . 
I now perceive it was not altogether your brother’s evil disposition made him seek his death ,  but a provoking merit set awork by a reprovable badness in himself . 	now I realize your brother tried to kill your father not just because your brother is an evil man ,  but because your father deserved it by being wicked himself . 
how malicious is my fortune ,  that I must repent to be just ! 	how unlucky am I ,  having to apologize for doing the right thing ! 
go with me to the duchess . 	come with me to see the duchess . 
If the matter of this paper be certain ,  you have mighty business in hand . 	If this letter’s right ,  you’ve got a lot to deal with . 
true or false ,  it hath made thee Earl of Gloucester . 	right or not ,  it’s made you the Earl of Gloucester . 
I will lay trust upon thee ,  and thou shalt find a dearer father in my love . 	I put my trust in you . 
here is better than the open air . 	It’s better here than outside . 
take it thankfully . 	be happy about it . 
I will piece out the comfort with what addition I can . 	I’ll do what I can to make you even more comfortable . 
I will not be long from you . 	I won’t be gone long . 
all the power of his wits have given way to his impatience . 	he can’t bear his grief and so he’s losing his mind . 
the gods reward your kindness ! 	may God reward you for your kindness ! 
a king ,  a king ! 	he’s a king ,  a king ! 
no ,  he’s a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son ,  for he’s a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman before him . 	no ,  he’s an ordinary guy who ’s got a gentleman for a son ,  since someone would have to be crazy to let his son become a gentleman before he’s achieved that distinction himself . 
to have a thousand with red burning spits Come hissing in upon 'em ! 	I see Regan and Goneril in hell—A thousand hissing devils with sizzling red pitchforks come up to them ! 
the foul fiend bites my back . 	the nasty devil’s biting my butt . 
It shall be done . 	I’ll do it . 
the foul fiend haunts Poor Tom in the voice of a nightingale . 	the devil sings like a nightingale to haunt Poor Tom . 
hoppedance cries in Tom’s belly for two white herring . 	the demon Hoppedance is in Tom’s belly ,  crying for some fish to eat . 
croak not ,  black angel . 	stop whining ,  devil . 
I have no food for thee . 	I’ve got no food to give you . 
sit you too . 	let’s have the evidence . 
let us deal justly . 	let’s give a fair verdict . 
I here take my oath before this honorable assembly ,  she kicked the poor king her father . 	there she is . 
come hither ,  mistress . 	come here ,  ma'am . 
Is your name Goneril ? 	Is your name Goneril ? 
she cannot deny it . 	she can’t deny it . 
and here’s another ,  whose warped looks proclaim What store her heart is made on . 	and here’s Regan ,  whose grotesque face betrays her twisted heart . 
stop her there ! 	stop her ! 
arms ,  arms ,  sword ,  fire ,  corruption in the place ! 	fire ! 
false justicer ,  why hast thou let her ’scape ? 	you corrupt judge ,  why did you let her escape ? 
they’ll mar my counterfeiting . 	bless your heart . 
the little dogs and all ,  Tray ,  Blanch ,  and Sweetheart—see ,  they bark at me . 	look at the three little dogs ,  Tray ,  Blanch ,  and Sweetheart—all barking at me . 
tom will throw his head at them . —Avaunt ,  you curs ! 	tom will chase them off . —Go away ,  you mongrels ! 
tooth that poisons if it bite ,  Mastiff ,  greyhound ,  mongrel grim , 	whether you bite to kill ,  Mastiff ,  greyhound ,  or ugly mutt , 
hound or spaniel ,  brach or him ,   Bobtail tyke or trundle - tail—  Tom will make them weep and wail . 	hound or spaniel ,  bitch or dog ,  Whether your tail is short or curly— Tom will make you cry and wail . 
for with throwing thus my head ,   Dogs leap the hatch ,  and all are fled . 	with one little toss of his head ,  He can scare you off for good . 
be thy mouth or black or white ,   Do - de ,  de - de . 	whether your mouth is black or white ,  Do - dee ,  dee - dee da . 
cessez ! 	stop ! 
come ,  march to wakes and fairs and market towns . 	run off ,  go visit fairs and festivals ! 
poor Tom ,  thy horn is dry . 	poor Tom ,  your cup is empty . 
Is there any cause in nature that makes these hard hearts ? 	Is there any natural cause for hardening of the heart ? 
now ,  good my lord ,  lie here and rest awhile . 	please lie down and rest a while ,  my lord . 
make no noise ,  make no noise . 	be quiet ,  be quiet . 
draw the curtains—so ,  so ,  so . 	draw the curtains ,  just like that . 
we’ll go to supper i' th' morning . 	we’ll have supper in the morning . 
so ,  so ,  so . 	that’s right . 
and I’ll go to bed at noon . 	and I’ll go to bed at noon . 
here ,  sir ,  but trouble him not . 	he’s here ,  sir ,  but please don’t bother him . 
his wits are gone . 	he’s out of his right mind . 
good friend ,  I prithee ,  take him in thy arms . 	please get him ,  my friend ,  I beg you . 
there is a litter ready . 	put
come ,  help to bear thy master . 	carry your master out . 
come ,  come ,  away . 	come on ,  come on . 
when we our betters see bearing our woes ,  We scarcely think our miseries our foes . 	when we see that our betters have the same problems we do ,  we can almost forget our own misery . 
who alone suffers ,  suffers most i' th' mind ,  Leaving free things and happy shows behind . 	the person who suffers alone suffers the most . 
but then the mind much sufferance doth o'erskip When grief hath mates and bearing fellowship . 	companions in sorrow alleviate our grief . 
tom ,  away ! 	let’s go ,  Tom . 
what will hap more tonight ,  safe ’scape the king ! 	whatever else happens tonight ,  I hope the king escapes safely ! 
lurk ,  lurk . 	lurk out of sight . 
hang him instantly . 	hang him immediately . 
pluck out his eyes . 	gouge out his eyes ! 
leave him to my displeasure . —Edmund ,  keep you our sister company . 	leave him to my wrath . —Edmund ,  go with my sister - in - law . 
the revenges we are bound to take upon your traitorous father are not fit for your beholding . 	you shouldn’t have to see the punishment we inflict on your father . 
advise the duke where you are going ,  to a most festinate preparation . 	tell the Duke of Albany to prepare for war immediately . 
we are bound to the like . 	we will do the same . 
our posts shall be swift and intelligent betwixt us . —Farewell ,  dear sister . 	we’ll keep the lines of communication open between us . 
how now ? 	hello . 
where’s the king ? 	where’s the king ? 
my lord of Gloucester hath conveyed him hence . 	lord Gloucester has helped him leave . 
some five or six and thirty of his knights ,  Hot questrists after him ,  met him at gate ,  Who with some other of the lord’s dependants Are gone with him towards Dover ,  where they boast To have well - armèd friends . 	thirty - five or thirty - six of his knights met him at the gate ,  and together with some others they’ve set off for Dover ,  where they claim to have powerful friends . 
get horses for your mistress . 	prepare the horses for your lady . 
farewell ,  sweet lord ,  and sister . 	goodbye ,  my sweet lord . —Goodbye ,  my sister . 
edmund ,  farewell . 	goodbye ,  Edmund . 
go seek the traitor Gloucester . 	go find the traitor Gloucester . 
pinion him like a thief ,  bring him before us . 	tie him up like a thief and bring him here to me . 
Ingrateful fox ,  ’tis he . 	that’s him . 
bind fast his corky arms . 	tie up his withered old arms . 
what mean your graces ? 	what are you doing ? 
good my friends ,  consider You are my guests . 	my friends ,  remember that you’re my guests here . 
do me no foul play ,  friends . 	don’t play any nasty tricks on me . 
bind him ,  I say . 	tie him up ,  I tell you . 
most royal majesty ,  I crave no more than hath your highness offered . 	your highness ,  I want nothing more than what you’ve already offered . 
nor will you tender less . 	I know you’ll offer nothing less than that . 
sir ,  there she stands . 	there she is ,  over there . 
I know no answer . 	I don’t know what to say . 
sir ,  will you ,  with those infirmities she owes— Unfriended ,  new adopted to our hate ,  Dowered with our curse and strangered with our oath— Take her or leave her ? 	so do you take her or leave her ? 
then leave her ,  sir ,  for by the power that made me ,  I tell you all her wealth . 	then leave her ,  sir . 
hard ,  hard . —O filthy traitor ! 	tie him up harder . —You filthy traitor ! 
unmerciful lady as you are ,  I’m none . 	I’m not a traitor ,  unfair lady . 
to this chair bind him . —Villain ,  thou shalt find— By the kind gods ,  ’tis most ignobly done To pluck me by the beard . 	tie him to this chair . —You’ll see ,  criminal— By the gods ,  it’s disgraceful for you to pull my beard . 
so white ,  and such a traitor ? 	as old and white - haired as you are ,  and you’re such a traitor ? 
naughty lady ,  These hairs which thou dost ravish from my chin Will quicken and accuse thee . 	wicked woman ,  these white hairs you’re pulling off my chin will come to life and accuse you of wrong - doing . 
I am your host . 	you are my guests . 
with robbers' hands my hospitable favors You should not ruffle thus . 	this is no way to treat a host who has welcomed you into his house . 
what will you do ? 	what do you think you’re doing ? 
come ,  sir ,  what letters had you late from France ? 	tell us about the letters that you got from France . 
be simple - answered ,  for we know the truth . 	get to the point ,  since we already know the truth . 
and what confederacy have you with the traitors Late footed in the kingdom ? 	and what’s your connection with the traitors who landed in our kingdom recently ? 
to whose hands You have sent the lunatic king . 	the ones you’ve sent our lunatic king to . 
speak . 	tell us . 
I have a letter guessingly set down ,  Which came from one that’s of a neutral heart ,  And not from one opposed . 	It came from a neutral party ,  not from someone opposed to you . 
cunning . 	how clever of you . 
and false . 	clever lies . 
where hast thou sent the king ? 	where have you sent the king ? 
to Dover . 	to Dover . 
wherefore to Dover ? 	why Dover ? 
wast thou not charged at peril— Wherefore to Dover ? —Let him first answer that . 	weren’t you ordered ,  on penalty of— Why Dover ? —Let him answer that question first . 
I am tied to th' stake ,  and I must stand the course . 	I’m backed into a corner with nowhere to run . 
wherefore to Dover ,  sir ? 	why Dover ? 
because I would not see thy cruèl nails Pluck out his poor old eyes ,  nor thy fierce sister In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs . 	because I didn’t want to watch while you gouged out his poor old eyes with your cruel fingernails ,  or while your vicious sister sank her fangs into his sacred flesh . 
the sea ,  with such a storm as his bare head In hell - black night endured ,  would have buoyed up ,  And quenched the stellèd fires . 	you left him out in the storm in the black night ,  bareheaded ,  a storm so terrible that if it had happened at sea ,  the waters would have risen up and extinguished the fire burning in the stars . 
yet poor old heart ,  he holp the heavens to rain . 	and the poor old man just wept ,  mixing his tears with the rain . 
If wolves had at thy gate howled that stern time ,  Thou shouldst have said ,   “ Good porter ,  turn the key ,  ”  All cruèls else subscribed . 	If wolves had been howling outside your gate at the heart of that storm ,  you would’ve told your doorman to let them in ,  despite all the cruelties you inflict on the world . 
but I shall see The wingèd vengeance overtake such children . 	but soon I’ll see the gods punish you for your lack of respect to your father . 
see ”  ’t shalt thou never . —Fellows ,  hold the chair . — Upon these eyes of thine I’ll set my foot . 	you won’t be seeing anything . —Hold his chair still ,  men . —I’m going to put my foot on his eyes . 
he that will think to live till he be old ,  Give me some help ! 	oh ,  help me ,  anyone who wants to live long ! 
o cruel ! 	oh ,  so cruel ! 
o you gods ! 	oh dear gods ! 
one side will mock another—th' other too . 	now he’s a little crooked . 
but better service have I never done you Than now to bid you hold . 	I’ve served you since childhood ,  but I’ve never done you a better service than telling you to stop . 
how now ,  you dog ? 	what’s this ,  you dog ? 
If you did wear a beard upon your chin ,  I’d shake it on this quarrel . 	I am willing to fight you if I must . 
what do you mean ? 	what do you mean by all this ? 
nay then ,  come on ,  and take the chance of anger . 	come on then . 
oh ,  I am slain ! —My lord ,  you have one eye left To see some mischief on him . 	I am dying ! —My lord ,  you still have one eye left to see Cornwall punished . 
oh ! 	oh ! 
where is thy luster now ? 	where’s your sparkle now ? 
where’s my son Edmund ? 	where’s my son Edmund ? 
out ,  treacherous villain ! 	wrong ,  evil traitor . 
thou call’st on him that hates thee . 	you’re appealing to a son who hates you . 
It was he That made the overture of thy treasons to us ,  Who is too good to pity thee . 	he’s too good to have any compassion for you . 
o my follies ! 	what a fool I’ve been ! 
then Edgar was abused . 	this means I’ve mistreated Edgar . 
go thrust him out at gates ,  and let him smell His way to Dover . 	he can sniff his way to Dover . 
I have received a hurt . 	I’m wounded . 
follow me ,  lady . — Turn out that eyeless villain . 	follow me ,  madam . —Throw the blind traitor outside . 
throw this slave Upon the dunghill . —Regan ,  I bleed apace . 	and throw this dead peasant into the manure pit . —Regan ,  I’m bleeding . 
untimely comes this hurt . 	It’s a bad time for such an injury . 
give me your arm . 	give me your arm . 
I’ll never care what wickedness I do ,  If this man come to good . 	If our criminal master gets off free ,  I won’t care what happens to me anymore . 
If she live long ,  And in the end meet the old course of death ,  Women will all turn monsters . 	If she lives a long and happy life ,  then all women may as well turn into monsters . 
let’s follow the old earl ,  and get the Bedlam To lead him where he would . 	let’s follow the old earl ,  and get that crazy Tom to take him wherever he wants to go . 
his roguish madness Allows itself to any thing . 	as a wandering lunatic ,  he can do whatever he wants . 
go thou . 	go ahead . 
I’ll fetch some flax and whites of eggs To apply to his bleeding face . 	I’ll get some cloth and egg whites to bandage his bleeding face . 
now heaven help him ! 	heaven help him ! 
the lamentable change is from the best; The worst returns to laughter . 	at the bottom ,  any change is for the better . 
welcome ,  then ,  Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace ! 	so I welcome this wind freely . 
but who comes here ? 	but who is this ? 
my father ,  poorly led ? 	my father ,  led by a poor peasant ? 
world ,  world ,  O world ! 	oh ,  life is full of surprises ! 
but that thy strange mutations make us hate thee ,  Life would not yield to age . 	we age and die because they wear us out . 
I have been your tenant and your father’s tenant these fourscore years . 	I’ve rented land from you and your father for eighty years . 
away ,  get thee away . 	away ,  get out of here . 
good friend ,  be gone . 	leave me ,  my friend . 
alack ,  sir ,  you cannot see your way . 	but you can’t see where you’re going ,  sir . 
I have no way ,  and therefore want no eyes . 	I don’t have anywhere to go ,  so I don’t need to see . 
I stumbled when I saw . 	when I could see ,  I didn’t always see clearly . 
full oft ’tis seen ,  Our means secure us and our mere defects Prove our commodities . 	It’s often the case that having something makes us spoiled ,  while not having it turns out to be advantageous . 
o dear son Edgar ,  The food of thy abusèd father’s wrath ,  Might I but live to see thee in my touch ,  I’d say I had eyes again ! 	If I live long enough to touch you again ,  that would be as good as having my eyesight back . 
how now ? 	who’s that ? 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
madman and beggar too . 	Is it a beggar ? 
my son Came then into my mind ,  and yet my mind Was then scarce friends with him . 	I was reminded of my son ,  even though I despised my son at that time . 
I have heard more since . 	now I know better . 
Is that the naked fellow ? 	Is that the naked guy ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
alack ,  sir ,  he is mad . 	but sir ,  he’s crazy . 
tis the time’s plague when madmen lead the blind . 	It’s the tragedy of our times that lunatics must lead the blind . 
do as I bid thee . 	do as I asked you . 
or rather ,  do thy pleasure . 	or rather ,  do what you feel like doing . 
sirrah ,  naked fellow— Poor Tom’s a - cold . 	hey ,  naked guy— Poor Tom’s chilly . 
come hither ,  fellow . 	come here ,  man . 
know’st thou the way to Dover ? 	do you know the way to Dover ? 
poor Tom hath been scared out of his good wits . 	poor Tom has been scared out of his mind . 
so bless thee ,  master . 	bless you ,  master . 
ay ,  master . 	yes ,  sir . 
there is a cliff ,  whose high and bending head Looks fearfully in the confinèd deep . 	there’s a cliff there that leans precariously over the deep sea . 
bring me but to the very brim of it ,  And I’ll repair the misery thou dost bear With something rich about me . 	take me to the edge of it ,  and I’ll reward all your troubles with something valuable . 
from that place I shall no leading need . 	once I’m there ,  I won’t need a guide anymore . 
give me thy arm . 	give me your arm . 
poor Tom shall lead thee . 	poor Tom will take you there . 
welcome ,  my lord . 	welcome ,  my lord . 
I marvel our mild husband Not met us on the way . 	I’m surprised my bland husband didn’t meet me on the way here . 
now ,  where’s your master ? 	where’s your master ? 
sure ,  her offense Must be of such unnatural degree That monsters it (or your fore - vouched affection Fall into taint) ,  which to believe of her Must be a faith that reason without miracle Could never plant in me . 	but it’d take a miracle to make me believe she could do anything that horrible . 
go to ,  go to . 	enough . 
better thou Hadst not been born than not t' have pleased me better . 	It would’ve been better for you not to have been born at all than to displease me as you did . 
Is it no more but this—a tardiness in nature Which often leaves the history unspoke That it intends to do ? —My lord of Burgundy ,  What say you to the lady ? 	you mean this is the whole problem ,  that she is shy and hasn’t said everything she means to say and do ? —My lord of Burgundy ,  what do you have to say to this lady ? 
love’s not love When it is mingled with regards that stands Aloof from th' entire point . 	love’s not love when it gets mixed up with irrelevant outside matters . 
will you have her ? 	will you marry her ? 
she is herself a dowry . 	she herself is as valuable as any dowry could ever be . 
yours in the ranks of death . 	I’m at your service until death . 
my most dear Gloucester ! 	my dear Gloucester ! 
oh ,  the difference of man and man ! 	what a man ! —especially compared to my husband . 
to thee a woman’s services are due . 	edmund ,  you deserve me to be your woman . 
my fool usurps my body . 	there’s a fool sharing my bed now . 
madam ,  here comes my lord . 	ma'am ,  my master’s coming . 
I have been worth the whistle . 	so you finally find me worthy of your attentions . 
o Goneril ,  You are not worth the dust which the rude wind Blows in your face . 	goneril ,  you aren’t worth the dust the wind blows in your face . 
I fear your disposition . 	I don’t trust you . 
that nature ,  which contemns its origin Cannot be bordered certain in itself . 	you can’t trust anyone who abuses her own father ,  her flesh and blood . 
she that herself will sliver and disbranch From her material sap perforce must wither And come to deadly use . 	she will wither and come to a bad end . 
no more . 	oh ,  shut up . 
the text is foolish . 	your words are idiotic . 
wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile . 	bad people can’t appreciate wisdom or goodness . 
filths savor but themselves . 	they only like things as bad as themselves . 
what have you done ? 	what have you two sisters done ? 
tigers ,  not daughters ,  what have you performed ? 	you’re tigers ,  not daughters . 
could my good brother suffer you to do it— A man ,  a prince by him so benefited ? 	could my good brother - in - law—a man to whom the
where’s thy drum ? 	coward ! 
thou changèd and self - covered thing ,  for shame ! 	shame on you ,  warped hag ! 
bemonster not thy feature . 	your true demonic features are distorting your body . 
were ’t my fitness To let these hands obey my blood ,  They are apt enough to dislocate and tear Thy flesh and bones . 	If I let myself do what I yearn to ,  I’d rip the flesh off your bones . 
howe'er thou art a fiend ,  A woman’s shape doth shield thee . 	but I won’t attack a woman ,  even if she is a demon . 
marry ,  your manhood ,  mew ! 	I sneeze on your manhood . 
what news ? 	what news do you bring ? 
gloucester’s eyes ? 	gloucester’s eyes ? 
but oh ,  poor Gloucester— Lost he his other eye ? 	there’s justice in heaven after all ! 
both ,  both ,  my lord . — This letter ,  madam ,  craves a speedy answer . 	that these crimes are punished so quickly is proof . 
tis from your sister . 	but oh ,  poor Glou - cester ! 
one way I like this well . 	did he lose his other eye ? 
but being widow ,  and my Gloucester with her ,  May all the building in my fancy pluck Upon my hateful life . 	he lost both ,  my lord . —Ma'am ,  this letter is from your sister ,  and needs an immediate answer . 
come with my lady hither . 	he was on his way here with your wife . 
he is not here . 	but he isn’t here now . 
no ,  my good lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
twas he informed against him ,  And quit the house on purpose that their punishment Might have the freer course . 	he was the one who denounced his father . 
tell me what more thou know’st . 	what else you do know ? 
why the King of France is so suddenly gone back know you the reason ? 	do you know why the King of France suddenly went back home ? 
something he left imperfect in the state which ,  since his coming forth ,  is thought of; which imports to the kingdom so much fear and danger that his personal return was most required and necessary . 	It was urgent and important enough to require his personal presence . 
who hath he left behind him general ? 	whom did he leave in charge here ? 
the Marshal of France ,  Monsieur la Far . 	the marshal of France ,  Monsieur la Far . 
did your letters pierce the queen to any demonstration of grief ? 	was Queen Cordelia aggrieved by the letters you delivered ? 
ay ,  sir . 	yes ,  sir . 
It seemed she was a queen Over her passion ,  who ,  most rebel - like ,  Sought to be king o'er her . 	she seemed to be trying to control her emotions ,  which were overwhelming her . 
o ,  then it moved her ? 	so she was moved by it ? 
In brief ,  Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved If all could so become it . 	If everyone looked so lovely in their sorrow ,  then sorrow would be highly prized . 
made she no verbal question ? 	she didn’t ask anything ? 
faith ,  once or twice she heaved the name of  “ father ”  Pantingly forth as if it pressed her heart ,  Cried ,   “ Sisters ,  sisters ! 	actually ,  once or twice she sighed and said ,   “ father ,  ”  as if the word were pressing on her chest . 
shame of ladies ,  sisters ! 	once she exclaimed ,   “ Sisters ,  sisters ,  shame on you ! 
kent ,  father ,  sisters ! 	kent ,  father ,  sisters ! 
what ,  i' th' storm ,  i' th' night ? 	what ,  out in a storm in the middle of the night ? 
let pity not be believed .  ”  There she shook The holy water from her heavenly eyes ,  And clamor moistened . 	I can’t believe it .  ”  The tears fell from her eyes like holy water . 
then away she started To deal with grief alone . 	then she ran away to grieve alone . 
you spoke not with her since ? 	have you not spoken to her since then ? 
no . 	no . 
was this before the king returned ? 	did this happen before the King of France returned home ? 
no ,  since . 	no ,  afterward . 
why ,  good sir ? 	why ,  good sir ? 
a sovereign shame so elbows him . 	he’s too overwhelmed with shame . 
his own unkindness That stripped her from his benediction turned her To foreign casualties ,  gave her dear rights To his dog - hearted daughters . 	he remembers how unkind he was to her ,  how he disowned her and sent her abroad ,  how he gave her rightful inheritance to her two dog - hearted sisters . 
these things sting His mind so venomously that burning shame Detains him from Cordelia . 	all those memories pain his mind so deeply that guilt and shame keep him away from Cordelia . 
alack ,  poor gentleman ! 	oh ,  the poor man ! 
of Albany’s and Cornwall’s powers you heard not ? 	have you heard about Albany’s and Cornwall’s troops ? 
tis so . 	I have . 
they are afoot . 	they’re on the march . 
well ,  sir ,  I’ll bring you to our master Lear And leave you to attend him . 	well ,  sir ,  I’ll take you to Lear and have you stay with him a while . 
some dear cause Will in concealment wrap me up awhile . 	I have important business that requires me to remain in disguise a while longer . 
when I am known aright you shall not grieve Lending me this acquaintance . 	when I’ve revealed my true identity ,  you’ll be glad you took the time to help me out . 
I pray you ,  go Along with me . 	please come with me . 
alack ,  ’tis he . 	sadly ,  it’s the king that’s missing . 
why ,  he was met even now As mad as the vexed sea ,  singing aloud ,  Crowned with rank fumiter and furrow - weeds ,  With burdocks ,  hemlock ,  nettles ,  cuckoo - flowers ,  Darnel ,  and all the idle weeds that grow In our sustaining corn . —A century send forth . 	they saw him just now as mad and deranged as the stormy sea ,  singing loudly ,  wearing a crown of nettles ,  thorns ,  hemlock ,  and all the other weeds that grow in our cornfields . —Send out a hundred soldiers to find him . 
search every acre in the high - grown field ,  And bring him to our eye . 	search high and low ,  in every acre of the fields ,  and bring him here for me to see him . 
there is means ,  madam . 	there is a way ,  ma'am . 
our foster nurse of nature is repose ,  The which he lacks—that to provoke in him Are many simples operative ,  whose power Will close the eye of anguish . 	but there are many herbs that will help him rest and take his mind off his anguish for a while . 
all blessed secrets ,  All you unpublished virtues of the earth ,  Spring with my tears . 	then I’ll water all those precious herbs with my tears to make them grow . 
be aidant and remediate In the good man’s distress . 	may they relieve a sick old man’s suffering . 
seek ,  seek for him ,  Lest his ungoverned rage dissolve the life That wants the means to lead it . 	go find those herbs for him ,  before his madness puts his life in danger . 
news ,  madam . 	I have news ,  ma'am . 
the British powers are marching hitherward . 	the British forces are on their way here . 
tis known before . 	we already knew that . 
our preparation stands In expectation of them . 	our forces are ready for them . 
o dear father ,  It is thy business that I go about . 	oh ,  father ,  I’m taking care of your business . 
therefore great France My mourning and importuned tears hath pitied . 	that’s why the King of France listened to my pleas and tears . 
no blown ambition doth our arms incite ,  But love—dear love ! —and our aged father’s right . 	we’re not invading England out of ambition or greed ,  but out of love—dear love ! —and my father’s right to his kingdom . 
soon may I hear and see him . 	I hope I see him and hear him again soon . 
but are my brother’s powers set forth ? 	have my brother - in - law’s troops been mobilized ? 
ay ,  madam . 	yes ,  ma'am . 
himself in person there ? 	Is he there in person ? 
madam ,  with much ado . 	yes ,  making a big fuss . 
your sister is the better soldier . 	your sister’s the better soldier of the two . 
lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home ? 	lord Edmund didn’t speak to your master at home ? 
no ,  madam . 	no ,  ma'am . 
what might import my sister’s letter to him ? 	what could my sister’s letter to him say ? 
I know not ,  lady . 	I don’t know ,  ma'am . 
faith ,  he is posted hence on serious matter . 	he rushed away on serious business . 
It was great ignorance ,  Gloucester’s eyes being out ,  To let him live . 	It was a huge mistake to let old Gloucester live after we blinded him . 
where he arrives he moves All hearts against us . 	wherever he goes ,  he inspires compassion and people turn against us . 
edmund I think is gone In pity of his misery to dispatch His nighted life; moreover to descry The strength o' th' enemy . 	and also to find out the size of the enemy army . 
I must needs after him ,  madam ,  with my letter . 	I have to follow him and give him the letter . 
our troops set forth tomorrow . 	our troops are deployed tomorrow . 
stay with us . 	stay with us tonight . 
the ways are dangerous . 	It’s dangerous out there . 
peace be with Burgundy . 	peace to you ,  my lord of Burgundy . 
since that respects and fortunes are his love ,  I shall not be his wife . 	since you love money and power so much ,  I won’t be your wife . 
thee and thy virtues here I seize upon ,  Be it lawful I take up what’s cast away . 	I’ll take you and your wonderful virtues here and now ,  if it’s okay that I’m picking up what others have thrown away . 
not all the dukes of waterish Burgundy Can buy this unprized precious maid of me . — Bid them farewell ,  Cordelia ,  though unkind . 	no Duke of spineless Burgundy can take this treasure of a girl from me now . —Say goodbye to them ,  Cordelia ,  even though they’ve been unkind to you . 
let her be thine ,  for we Have no such daughter ,  nor shall ever see That face of hers again . 	she’s no longer my daughter ,  and I’ll never see her face again . 
bid farewell to your sisters . 	say goodbye to your sisters . 
I may not ,  madam . 	I can’t ,  ma'am . 
my lady charged my duty in this business . 	my lady ordered me to deliver her letter . 
why should she write to Edmund ? 	why would she write to Edmund ? 
belike Some things—I know not what . 	It probably has something to do with… I don’t know . 
madam ,  I had rather— I know your lady does not love her husband . 	ma'am ,  I’d rather— I know your lady Goneril doesn’t love her husband . 
I am sure of that . 	I’m sure of that . 
and at her late being here She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks To noble Edmund . 	and when she was here recently she flirted with Edmund and gave him significant glances . 
I know you are of her bosom . 	I know she trusts you and tells you everything . 
I ,  madam ? 	me ,  ma'am ? 
I speak in understanding . 	I know what I’m talking about . 
therefore I do advise you ,  take this note . 	so I recommend you take note of what I’m about to say . 
my lord is dead . 	my husband is dead . 
edmund and I have talked ,  And more convenient is he for my hand Than for your lady’s . 	edmund and I have talked ,  and it makes more sense for him to marry me than Goneril . 
you may gather more . 	you can figure out the rest . 
fare thee well . 	goodbye . 
when shall we come to th' top of that same hill ? 	when will we get to the top of that cliff ? 
methinks the ground is even . 	the ground feels flat to me . 
horrible steep . 	no ,  it’s dreadfully steep . 
no ,  truly . 	no ,  really ,  I don’t . 
why then ,  your other senses grow imperfect By your eyes' anguish . 	then your other senses must be getting worse because of the trauma of blindness . 
so may it be indeed . 	It may be so . 
methinks thy voice is altered ,  and thou speak’st In better phrase and matter than thou didst . 	It seems to me that your voice has changed ,  and that your speech is more elegant than it used to be . 
you’re much deceived . 	you’re mistaken about all that . 
In nothing am I changed But in my garments . 	the only thing different about me is my clothes . 
methinks you’re better spoken . 	I think you’re more articulate . 
come on ,  sir . 	come on ,  sir . 
here’s the place . 	this is the place . 
stand still . 	stand still . 
how fearful And dizzy ’tis to cast one’s eyes so low ! 	It’s so scary to look down ! 
the crows and choughs that wing the midway air Show scarce so gross as beetles . 	the crows flying down below look as small as ants . 
halfway down Hangs one that gathers samphire—dreadful trade ! 	halfway down the cliff there’s somebody clinging to the rock and gathering wild herbs—a risky business ! 
and yon tall anchoring bark , 	that big ship over there looks no bigger
the murmuring surge That on th' unnumbered idle pebbles chafes Cannot be heard so high . 	up here you can’t even hear the waves crashing against the rocks . 
set me where you stand . 	lead me to where you’re standing . 
give me your hand . 	give me your hand . 
you are now within a foot Of th' extreme verge . 	you’re now within a foot of the cliff’s edge . 
let go my hand . 	let go of my hand . 
now fare you well ,  good sir . 	goodbye ,  good sir . 
with all my heart . 	with all my heart . 
o you mighty gods ,   This world I do renounce ,  and in your sights Shake patiently my great affliction off . 	oh ,  you mighty gods ! 
gone ,  sir . 	gone ,  sir . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
away ,  and let me die . 	go away and let me die . 
ten masts at each make not the altitude Which thou hast perpendicularly fell . 	you just fell the height of ten ship masts ,  straight down . 
thy life’s a miracle . 	It’s a miracle you’re alive . 
speak yet again . 	say something again . 
but have I fall'n ,  or no ? 	but did I fall or not ? 
from the dread summit of this chalky bourn . 	you fell from the terrifying top of this chalk cliff . 
look up a - height . 	look for yourself—see the top of the cliff way up there ? 
the shrill - gorged lark so far Cannot be seen or heard . 	the lark shrilly singing up there is too far away to be heard . 
do but look up . 	just look . 
twas yet some comfort When misery could beguile the tyrant’s rage And frustrate his proud will . 	It used to be the last ditch comfort of miserable people . 
give me your arm . 	give me your arm . 
up so . 	get up . 
how is ’t ? 	how do you feel ? 
feel you your legs ? 	can you feel your legs ? 
you stand . 	you’re standing . 
too well ,  too well . 	only too well . 
this is above all strangeness . 	this is beyond weird . 
upon the crown o' th' cliff ,  what thing was that Which parted from you ? 	what was that thing I saw moving away from you up on the cliff before you fell ? 
a poor unfortunate beggar . 	that was a poor unlucky beggar . 
as I stood here below ,  methought his eyes Were two full moons . 	from down here ,  I thought his eyes looked like full moons . 
he had a thousand noses ,  Horns whelked and waved like the enragèd sea . 	he had a thousand noses and twisted horns ,  like wave crests in a storm at sea . 
It was some fiend . 	It was some devil . 
I do remember now . 	I understand now . 
henceforth I’ll bear Affliction till it do cry out itself ,   “ Enough ,  enough ,  ”  and die . 	from now on I’ll put up with my anguish until the anguish itself cries out ,   “ Enough ,  enough !  ”  and disappears . 
that thing you speak of ,  I took it for a man . 	I thought that thing you’re talking about was a man . 
bear free and patient thoughts . 	cheer up and be at peace . 
but who comes here ? 	but who is that ? 
I am the king himself . 	I’m the king himself . 
look ,  look ,  a mouse ! 	life’s better at
peace ,  this piece of toasted cheese will do ’t . 	piece of cheese will get him . —I challenge you to a match . 
o ,  well flown ,  bird . 	oh ,  that arrow was well shot . 
I' th' clout ,  i' th' clout . 	whoosh ! 
sweet marjoram . 	sweet marjoram . 
pass . 	that’s it ! 
I know that voice . 	I know that voice . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
goneril with a white beard ? 	goneril with a white beard ? 
go to ,  they are not men o' their words . 	I tell you ,  they are not honest men . 
they told me I was everything . 	they told me I was everything . 
the trick of that voice I do well remember . 	I recognize something about that voice . 
Is ’t not the king ? 	Isn’t that the king ? 
ay ,  every inch a king . 	yes ,  every inch a king . 
I pardon that man’s life . 	I pardon that man . 
what was thy cause ? 	what are you accused of ? 
adultery ? 	adultery ? 
thou shalt not die . 	I’ll commute your death sentence . 
die for adultery ? 	to die for adultery ? 
no . 	no . 
the wren goes to ’t ,  and the small gilded fly does lecher in my sight . 	little birds do it ,  and dragonflies copulate right in front of me . 
let copulation thrive ,  for Gloucester’s bastard son Was kinder to his father than my daughters got ’tween the lawful sheets . 	let’s have more sex in the world ,  since Gloucester’s bastard son was kinder to him than my daughters ,  conceived in lawful wedlock ,  have been to me . 
to ’t ,  luxury ,  pell - mell—for I lack soldiers . 	get to it ,  be lustful ,  sleep around—I need soldiers for my army . 
down from the waist they are centaurs ,  though women all above . 	women are sex machines below the waist ,  though they’re chaste up above . 
there’s hell ,  there’s darkness ,  there’s the sulfurous pit— burning ,  scalding ,  stench ,  consumption ! 	that’s where hell is ,  and darkness ,  and fires and stench ! 
fie ,  fie ,  fie ,  pah ,  pah ! —Give me an ounce of civet ,  good apothecary ,  to sweeten my imagination . 	give me an aphrodisiac ,  pharmacist . 
there’s money for thee . 	there’s money in it for you . 
o ,  let me kiss that hand ! 	oh ,  let me kiss his hand ! 
let me wipe it first . 	let me wipe it off first . 
I remember thine eyes well enough . 	I remember your eyes quite well . 
dost thou squiny at me ? 	are you squinting at me ? 
read thou this challenge . 	read it . 
read . 	how ? 
what ,  with the case of eyes ? 	with my eye sockets ? 
oh ho ,  are you there with me ? 	oh ho ,  is that what you’re getting at ? 
no eyes in your head ,  nor no money in your purse ? 	no eyes in your head til there’s money in your wallet ? 
what ,  art mad ? 	what ,  are you crazy ? 
a man may see how this world goes with no eyes . 	you don’t need eyes to see how the world works . 
look with thine ears . 	look with your ears . 
see how yon justice rails upon yon simple thief . 	look how the judge yells at a simple thief . 
thou hast seen a farmer’s dog bark at a beggar ? 	have you seen a farmer’s dog bark at a beggar ? 
ay ,  sir . 	yes ,  sir . 
and the creature run from the cur ? 	and you saw how the beggar ran from the mutt ? 
there thou mightst behold the great image of authority: a dog’s obeyed in office . 	that’s authority ! 
thou rascal beadle ,  hold thy bloody hand . 	you stupid cop ,  stop your violence ! 
why dost thou lash that whore ? 	why are you whipping that whore ? 
thou hotly lust’st to use her in that kind  For which thou whipp’st her . 	you should be whipping yourself ,  since you lust after her and yearn to do the same thing for which you’re punishing her . 
the usurer hangs the cozener . 	one criminal punishes another . 
none does offend—none ,  I say ,  none . 	you can’t blame anyone for it anyone ,  I say . 
I’ll able 'em . 	I’ll vouch for that . 
take that of me ,  my friend ,  who have the power  To seal th' accuser’s lips . 	believe me ,  my friend ,  since I have the power to stop the prosecutors . 
harder ,  harder . 	harder ,  harder . 
so . 	like that . 
If thou wilt weep my fortunes ,  take my eyes . 	If you want to cry over my bad luck ,  I’ll give you my eyes . 
I know thee well enough . 	I know you . 
thy name is Gloucester . 	your name’s Gloucester . 
thou must be patient . 	you have to be patient with me . 
we came crying hither . 	I came here crying . 
thou know’st the first time that we smell the air We wawl and cry . 	the first time we see the world as newborns ,  we cry and scream . 
I will preach to thee . 	I’ll read you a sermon . 
mark me . 	listen to this . 
alack ,  alack the day ! 	oh ,  how awful ! 
when we are born ,  we cry that we are come To this great stage of fools . 	when we’re born ,  we cry because we’ve arrived on the stage of life ,  like all the other fools . 
this a good block . 	that’s a nice hat you’ve got there . 
It were a delicate stratagem to shoe A troop of horse with felt . 	how ingenious to make horseshoes out of felt . 
I’ll put ’t in proof . 	I’ll test it out . 
and when I have stol'n upon these sons - in - law ,  Then ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ! 	and when I’ve sneaked up on my sons - in - law ,  then I’ll kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ,  kill ! 
what ,  a prisoner ? 	what ,  I’m a prisoner ? 
I am even The natural fool of fortune . 	no rescue for me ? 
use me well . 	treat me well . 
you shall have ransom . 	there’s a ransom . 
let me have surgeons . 	I need a doctor . 
I am cut to th' brains . 	my brains are injured . 
you shall have anything . 	you can have anything you want . 
no seconds ? 	will no one back me up ? 
all myself ? 	am I all alone ? 
why ,  this would make a man a man of salt ,  To use his eyes for garden water - pots ,  Ay ,  and laying autumn’s dust . 	that would make anyone cry enough to water his garden with his tears . 
good sir—	good sir—
I will die bravely ,  like a smug bridegroom . 	I’ll die  You’re of royal blood ,  and we obey you . 
what ,  I will be jovial . 	then there’s still a chance . 
come ,  come . 	come and get it ! 
I am a king ,  my masters ,  know you that ? 	but you’ll have to catch me ! 
you are a royal one ,  and we obey you . 	catch me if you can ! 
then there’s life in ’t . 	sa ,  sa ,  sa ,  sa . 
a sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch ,  Past speaking of in a king . 	In a king ,  the sight is unbearable . 
hail ,  gentle sir . 	hello ,  good sir . 
sir ,  speed you . 	how do you do ,  sir . 
what’s your will ? 	how can I help you ? 
do you hear aught ,  sir ,  of a battle toward ? 	have you heard any news of impending battle ? 
most sure and vulgar . 	certainly . 
everyone hears that That can distinguish sound . 	everyone who can hear has heard about it . 
but ,  by your favor ,  how near’s the other army ? 	could you tell me how near the enemy is ? 
near and on speedy foot . 	very near ,  and approaching fast . 
the main descry Stands in the hourly thought . 	the main body of the army is expected here any hour now . 
I thank you ,  sir . 	thank you ,  sir . 
that’s all . 	that’s all I wanted to know . 
I know you what you are ,  And like a sister am most loath to call Your faults as they are named . 	I know you for what you really are ,  but as your sister I’m reluctant to criticize you . 
but yet ,  alas ,  stood I within his grace ,  I would prefer him to a better place . 	I leave him in your care—but oh ,  if only I were still in his favor I could arrange for better care for him . 
so farewell to you both . 	goodbye to you both . 
prescribe not us our duty . 	don’t tell us what our duty is . 
time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides ,  Who covers faults at last with shame derides . 	time will tell what you’ve got up your sleeve . 
well may you prosper . 	have a good life . 
come ,  my fair Cordelia . 	come with me ,  my dear Cordelia . 
sister ,  it is not a little I have to say of what most nearly appertains to us both . 	sister ,  I have a lot to say about things that concern us both . 
I think our father will hence tonight . 	I think that our father will leave here tonight . 
that’s most certain ,  and with you . 	yes ,  I’m sure he will—to stay with you . 
next month with us . 	next month he’ll stay with us . 
you see how full of changes his age is . 	he’s so flighty in his old age ,  as we keep noticing . 
he always loved our sister most ,  and with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off appears too grossly . 	he has always loved Cordelia best ,  and his bad judgment in disowning her now is obvious . 
though that the queen on special cause is here ,  Her army is moved on . 	the queen is here on special business ,  and her army has moved on . 
I thank you ,  sir . 	thank you ,  sir . 
you ever gentle gods ,  take my breath from me . 	gentle gods in heaven ,  please let me die . 
let not my worser spirit tempt me again To die before you please . 	don’t tempt me to suicide again . 
well pray you ,  father . 	pray well ,  father . 
now ,  good sir ,  what are you ? 	and who are you ,  good sir ? 
a most poor man made tame to fortune’s blows ,  Who by the art of known and feeling sorrows Am pregnant to good pity . 	I’m a poor man who’s been humbled by many misfortunes . 
hearty thanks . 	thank you very much . 
the bounty and the benison of heaven To boot and boot . 	may heaven bless you . 
most happy ! 	what good luck ! 
that eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh To raise my fortunes . 	that blind head of yours was created to make me rich . 
thou old unhappy traitor ,  Briefly thyself remember . 	you old traitor ,  repent all your sins . 
now let thy friendly hand Put strength enough to ’t . 	I hope you’re strong enough to do it . 
wherefore ,  bold peasant ,  Darest thou support a published traitor ? 	whoa ,  man ,  you dare to support someone who’s been proclaimed a traitor ? 
hence ,  Lest that th' infection of his fortune take Like hold on thee . 	get out of here ,  before his bad luck infects you too . 
let go his arm . 	let go of his arm . 
chill not let go ,  zir ,  without vurther 'casion . 	oh no ,  sir ,  I won’t let him go ,  sir ,  not without a good reason . 
let go ,  slave ,  or thou diest ! 	let go of him ,  peasant ,  or you die ! 
chill pick your teeth ,  zir . 	I’ll knock your teeth out ,  sir . 
come ,  no matter vor your foins . 	to hell with your sword . 
If ever thou wilt thrive ,  bury my body . 	I know you well . 
I know thee well—a serviceable villain ,  As duteous to the vices of thy mistress As badness would desire . 	you’re a hardworking villain who’d do anything his evil mistress wanted him to . 
what ,  is he dead ? 	Is he dead ? 
let’s see these pockets . 	let’s look in his pockets . 
the letters that he speaks of  May be my friends . 	the letters he spoke of may help me . 
he’s dead . 	he’s dead . 
I am only sorry  He had no other death’s - man . 	I’m just sorry I had to be the one to kill him . 
let us see . 	let’s see here . 
leave ,  gentle wax ,  and ,  manners ,  blame us not . 	come on ,  envelope ,  open up for me . 
their papers is more lawful . 	reading their mail isn’t as bad . 
let our reciprocal vows be remembered . 	don’t forget the vows we made to each other . 
the king is mad . 	the king is insane . 
better I were distract— So should my thoughts be severed from my griefs ,  And woes by wrong imaginations lose The knowledge of themselves . 	It’d be better to be delirious and unaware of anything . 
give me your hand . 	give me your hand . 
far off methinks I hear the beaten drum . 	I think I hear the drums far away . 
come ,  father ,  I’ll bestow you with a friend . 	come ,  father ,  I’ll leave you at a friend’s house . 
o thou good Kent ,  how shall I live and work To match thy goodness ? 	oh ,  Kent ,  what could I ever do to become as good as you are ? 
my life will be too short ,  And every measure fail me . 	I won’t live long enough ,  and all my efforts will fail me . 
to be acknowledged ,  madam ,  is o'erpaid . 	just being thanked is more than enough for me ,  madam . 
all my reports go with the modest truth ,  Nor more ,  nor clipped ,  but so . 	I hope all reports about me simply tell the truth ,  no more or less . 
be better suited . 	change into better clothes . 
I prithee ,  put them off . 	please take them off . 
my boon I make it that you know me not Till time and I think meet . 	I have to ask you ,  as a favor ,  not to let on that you recognize me until the time is right . 
then be ’t so ,  my good lord . — How does the king ? 	all right ,  my lord . —How’s the king doing ? 
madam ,  sleeps still . 	he’s still sleeping ,  ma'am . 
so please your majesty That we may wake the king ? 	would you mind if we woke up the king ? 
he hath slept long . 	he’s slept a long time . 
Is he arrayed ? 	Is he in his royal garments ? 
ay ,  madam . 	yes ,  ma'am . 
be by ,  good madam ,  when we do awake him . 	stay close by when we wake him up ,  ma'am . 
I doubt not of his temperance . 	I’m sure he will stay under control . 
very well . 	all right . 
please you ,  draw near . —Louder the music there ! 	please come closer . — Make the music louder ,  please ! 
kind and dear princess ! 	kind and dear princess ! 
had you not been their father ,  these white flakes Did challenge pity of them . 	If you hadn’t been their father ,  your white hair would have inspired in them only compassion . 
and wast thou fain ,  poor father ,  To hovel thee with swine and rogues forlorn In short and musty straw ? 	and were you then happy to find shelter on a bed of hay along with swine and homeless bums ? 
alack ,  alack ! 	oh ,  oh ! 
tis wonder that thy life and wits at once Had not concluded all . —He wakes . 	It’s a wonder you didn’t lose your life and your mind all at once . —He’s waking up . 
speak to him . 	talk to him . 
madam ,  do you . 	you talk to him ,  ma'am . 
tis fittest . 	that’s most appropriate . 
how does my royal lord ? 	how are you ,  my royal lord ? 
how fares your majesty ? 	how is your majesty doing ? 
you do me wrong to take me out o' th' grave . 	you do me wrong by taking me out of the grave . 
thou art a soul in bliss ,  but I am bound Upon a wheel of fire ,  that mine own tears Do scald like molten lead . 	even my tears burn me like molten lead . 
sir ,  do you know me ? 	sir ,  do you know who I am ? 
you are a spirit ,  I know . 	you’re a spirit ,  I know . 
where did you die ? 	where did you die ? 
let him alone awhile . 	let him be for a bit . 
where have I been ? 	where have I been ? 
where am I ? 	where am I ? 
fair daylight ? 	Is it daytime ? 
I am mightily abused . 	I’ve been tricked . 
I should ev'n die with pity To see another thus . 	I would die of pity to see someone else in my condition . 
I know not what to say . 	I don’t know what to say . 
I will not swear these are my hands . 	I can’t even be sure these are my hands . 
let’s see . 	let’s see . 
I feel this pinprick . 	I feel this pinprick . 
would I were assured Of my condition . 	I wish I knew what is happening . 
pray ,  do not mock me . 	please don’t make fun of me . 
I am a very foolish fond old man ,  Fourscore and upward ,  not an hour more nor less . 	I’m a foolish ,  senile old man ,  eighty - something years old ,  not an hour more or less . 
and to deal plainly I fear I am not in my perfect mind . 	to put it plainly ,  I’m afraid I’m not quite sane . 
methinks I should know you ,  and know this man . 	I feel I should recognize you and that man
nor I know not Where I did lodge last night . 	I can’t recall where I slept last night . 
do not laugh at me ,  For as I am a man ,  I think this lady To be my child Cordelia . 	don’t laugh at me ,  but I swear I think this lady is my child Cordelia . 
and so I am ,  I am . 	and I am ,  I am . 
be your tears wet ? 	are your tears wet ? 
yes ,  faith . 	yes ,  indeed they are . 
I pray ,  weep not . 	please don’t cry . 
If you have poison for me ,  I will drink it . 	If you have poison for me ,  I’ll drink it . 
you have some cause; they have not . 	but you didn’t ,  even though you had every reason . 
no cause ,  no cause . 	I had no reason ,  no reason . 
am I in France ? 	am I in France ? 
In your own kingdom ,  sir . 	you’re in your own kingdom ,  sir . 
do not abuse me . 	don’t deceive me . 
be comforted ,  good madam . 	you can relax ,  ma'am . 
the great rage ,  You see ,  is killed in him . 	his insane period is over . 
and yet it is danger To make him even o'er the time he has lost . 	but it’s dangerous to make him try to make sense of the time he lost . 
desire him to go in . 	ask him to go in . 
trouble him no more Till further settling . 	don’t trouble him further until his mind is more settled . 
will ’t please your highness walk ? 	would your highness like to take a walk ? 
you must bear with me . 	you’ll have to bear with me . 
pray you now ,  forget and forgive . 	please forgive and forget . 
I am old and foolish . 	I’m old and foolish . 
holds it true ,  sir ,  that the Duke of Cornwall was so slain ? 	Is it true ,  sir ,  that the Duke of Cornwall was killed as they say ? 
most certain ,  sir . 	yes ,  it’s true ,  sir . 
who is conductor of his people ? 	who is leading his men ? 
as ’tis said ,  the bastard son of Gloucester . 	they say Gloucester’s bastard son is . 
they say Edgar ,  his banished son ,  is with the Earl of Kent in Germany . 	I hear that Edgar ,  Gloucester’s exiled son ,  is with the Earl of Kent in Germany . 
report is changeable . 	you can’t trust all the rumors . 
tis time to look about . 	It’s time to reassess the situation . 
the powers of the kingdom approach apace . 	the British troops are coming near . 
the arbitrament is like to be bloody . 	It will likely be a bloody fight . 
fare you well ,  sir . 	goodbye ,  sir . 
tis to be doubted ,  madam . 	I’m afraid that may be the case ,  madam . 
now ,  sweet lord ,  You know the goodness I intend upon you . 	now ,  my sweet lord ,  you know how much I like you . 
tell me but truly—but then speak the truth— Do you not love my sister ? 	tell me truthfully ,  do you love my sister ? 
In honored love . 	no . 
I am doubtful that you have been conjunct And bosomed with her as far as we call hers . 	I’m just worried that you’ve been cozying up to her ,  and gotten intimate with her . 
no ,  by mine honor ,  madam . 	no ,  I swear on my honor ,  I haven’t ,  madam . 
tis the infirmity of his age . 	he’s going senile . 
yet he hath ever but slenderly known himself . 	but then again he’s never really understood his own feelings very well . 
the best and soundest of his time hath been but rash . 	yes ,  he was hotheaded even in the prime of his life . 
then must we look from his age to receive not alone the imperfections of long - engrafted condition ,  but therewithal the unruly waywardness that infirm and choleric years bring with them . 	now that he’s old ,  we can expect to have to deal not only with his old character flaws ,  which have turned into deep - rooted habits ,  but also with the uncontrollable crabbiness that comes with old age . 
such unconstant starts are we like to have from him as this of Kent’s banishment . 	we’ll probably witness many more outbursts from him ,  like banishing Kent . 
there is further compliment of leave - taking between France and him . 	there’s still the King of France’s farewell ceremony . 
pray you ,  let’s sit together . 	let’s put our heads together . 
If our father carry authority with such dispositions as he bears ,  this last surrender of his will but offend us . 	If our father continues to use his authority as usual ,  then his recent abdication of the kingdom will just hurt us . 
we shall further think on ’t . 	we’ll have to think about it carefully . 
we must do something ,  and i' th' heat . 	we have to strike while the iron’s hot . 
I never shall endure her . 	I can’t stand her . 
dear my lord ,  Be not familiar with her . 	please ,  my lord ,  don’t be friendly with her . 
fear me not . — She and the duke her husband ! 	don’t worry about me . —Your sister and the duke are here . 
sir ,  you speak nobly . 	noble words ,  sir . 
why is this reasoned ? 	why are we talking about this ? 
let’s then determine with the ancient of war On our proceedings . 	then let’s meet with our senior command and discuss what to do next . 
I shall attend you presently at your tent . 	I’ll meet you at your tent . 
sister ,  you’ll go with us ? 	goneril ,  are you coming with us ? 
no . 	no . 
tis most convenient . 	It’s the best thing to do . 
pray you ,  go with us . 	please come with me . 
stay till I have read the letter . 	wait until I read the letter . 
I was forbid it . 	I was ordered not to . 
when time shall serve ,  let but the herald cry ,  And I’ll appear again . 	when the time comes ,  tell the herald to blow the trumpet and I’ll return . 
why ,  fare thee well . 	goodbye ,  then . 
I will o'erlook thy paper . 	I’ll take a look at your letter . 
draw up your powers . 	prepare your troops . 
we will greet the time . 	we’ll be ready when the time comes . 
which of them shall I take ? 	which one of them should I pick ? 
both ? 	both ? 
one ? 	one ? 
or neither ? 	neither ? 
neither can be enjoyed If both remain alive . 	I can’t enjoy either of them as long as the other one’s alive . 
to take the widow Exasperates ,  makes mad her sister Goneril ,  And hardly shall I carry out my side ,  Her husband being alive . 	goneril would go crazy if I chose Regan ,  but it would be hard to get in with Goneril while her husband’s still alive . 
now ,  then ,  we’ll use His countenance for the battle ,  which being done ,  Let her who would be rid of him devise His speedy taking off . 	I’ll use Albany’s power and authority for now to win the war ,  but afterward one of the sisters—whichever one wants to—can get rid of him . 
If ever I return to you again ,  I’ll bring you comfort . 	If I ever come back ,  I’ll bring you good news . 
grace go with you ,  sir . 	good luck ,  sir . 
away ,  old man . 	we have to get out of here ,  old man . 
give me thy hand . 	let me help you up . 
away ! 	let’s go ! 
king Lear hath lost ,  he and his daughter ta'en . 	he and his daughter are captured . 
give me thy hand . 	give me your hand . 
come on . 	come on . 
no further ,  sir . 	I can’t go any further ,  sir . 
come on . 	come on . 
and that’s true too . 	and that’s true too . 
some officers take them away . 	officers ,  take them away . 
good guard Until their greater pleasures first be known That are to censure them . 	guard them carefully until we decide how to punish them . 
no ,  no ,  no ,  no ! 	no ,  no ,  no ,  no ! 
come ,  let’s away to prison . 	come on ,  let’s go to prison . 
we two alone will sing like birds i' th' cage . 	the two of us together will sing like birds in a cage . 
when thou dost ask me blessing ,  I’ll kneel down And ask of thee forgiveness . 	when you ask for my blessing ,  I’ll get down on my knees and ask you to forgive me . 
and we’ll wear out In a walled prison packs and sects of great ones That ebb and flow by the moon . 	In prison we’ll outlast hordes of rulers that will come and go as their fortunes change . 
take them away . 	take them away . 
upon such sacrifices ,  my Cordelia ,  The gods themselves throw incense . 	my Cordelia ,  even the gods admire how much you’ve sacrificed for me . 
have I caught thee ? 	have I hugged you yet ? 
he that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven And fire us hence like foxes . 	anyone who wants to separate us will have to smoke us out of the cave of our togetherness like foxes . 
wipe thine eyes . 	wipe your eyes . 
the good years shall devour them ,  flesh and fell ,  Ere they shall make us weep . 	our jailers will shrivel up with old age before they make us cry again . 
we’ll see 'em starve first . 	we’ll watch them starve to death first . 
come . 	come on . 
come hither ,  captain . 	come here ,  captain . 
hark . 	listen . 
I’ll do ’t ,  my lord . 	I’ll do it ,  sir . 
about it ,  and write  “ happy ”  when thou’st done . 	when you’ve finished ,  you’ll be a happy man . 
mark ,  I say ,  instantly ,  and carry it so As I have set it down . 	go immediately ,  and do exactly as I wrote down . 
I cannot draw a cart ,  nor eat dried oats . 	I can’t pull a cart or eat dried oats like a horse . 
If it be man’s work ,  I’ll do ’t . 	If it’s work for a man ,  I’ll do it . 
I do require them of you ,  so to use them As we shall find their merits and our safety May equally determine . 	tody of them so I can do what’s best out of concern for their honor and the safety of the kingdom . 
with him I sent the queen ,  My reason all the same ,  and they are ready Tomorrow or at further space t' appear Where you shall hold your session . 	I sent the French queen with him too ,  for the same reason . 
the question of Cordelia and her father Requires a fitter place . 	we need a more appropriate place to discuss Cordelia and her father . 
I hold you but a subject of this war ,  Not as a brother . 	I’m sorry ,  sir ,  but in this war I consider you a subordinate ,  not my equal . 
that’s as we list to grace him . 	that’s for to me to decide . 
not so hot . 	not so fast . 
In his own grace he doth exalt himself More than in your addition . 	he has distinguished himself as a great soldier in his own right ,  deserving more than any honor your can bestow on him . 
that were the most if he should   husband you . 	he’d really be your proxy if he married you . 
that eye that told you so looked but asquint . 	you’re so infatuated with him that you’re hallucinating . 
mean you to enjoy him then ? 	are you trying to sleep with him ? 
nor in thine ,  lord . 	nor is it up to you ,  my lord . 
half - blooded fellow ,  yes . 	yes it is ,  you half - blood . 
stay yet . 	hang on a second . 
an interlude ! 	what a farce ! 
thou art armed ,  Gloucester . 	you’ve got a sword ,  Gloucester . 
let the trumpet sound . 	blow the trumpets . 
sick ,  oh ,  sick ! 	oh ,  I’m sick ,  sick ! 
my sickness grows upon me . 	I feel sicker and sicker . 
she is not well . 	she’s not feeling well . 
convey her to my tent . 	take her to my tent . 
come hither ,  herald . —Let the trumpet sound , — And read out this . 	come here ,  herald . —Let the trumpet sound ! —Read this out . 
sound ,  trumpet ! 	blow the trumpet ! 
again ! 	again ! 
again ! 	again ! 
what are you ? 	who are you ? 
well then ,  Legitimate Edgar ,  I must have your land . 	all right then ,  legitimate brother Edgar ,  I have to have your lands . 
now ,  gods ,  stand up for bastards ! 	look out ,  I’m on my way up . 
kent banished thus ? 	kent’s been banished just like that ? 
all this done Upon the gad ? —Edmund ,  how now ? 	all this so suddenly ? —Edmund ,  what’s going on ? 
what news ? 	what’s the news ? 
o ,  know ,  my name is lost . 	I’ve lost my name and title to a traitor . 
yet am I noble as the adversary I come to cope withal . 	but I’m as noble as my opponent . 
which is that adversary ? 	and who is that ? 
what’s he that speaks for Edmund ,  Earl of Gloucester ? 	who’s the spokesman for Edmund ,  Earl of Gloucester ? 
himself . 	I’m my own spokesman . 
what sayst thou to him ? 	what do you have to say to me ? 
behold: it is the privilege of mine honors ,  My oath ,  and my profession . 	here’s mine . 
In wisdom I should ask thy name . 	normally I would ask you what your name is first . 
back do I toss these treasons to thy head ,  With the hell - hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart—	still fight you and embed your lies back in your hellish heart . —Trumpets ,  blow ! 
this is practice ,  Gloucester . 	you were tricked into fighting ,  Gloucester . 
by th' law of arms thou wast not bound to answer An unknown opposite . 	according to the laws of war ,  you didn’t have to fight a stranger . 
the laws are mine ,  not thine . 	I make the laws ,  not you . 
who can arraign me for ’t ? 	who can prosecute me for it ? 
most monstrous ,  oh ! 	oh ,  monstrous ! 
ask me not what I know . 	don’t ask me what I know . 
go after her . 	follow her . 
she’s desperate . 	she’s desperate . 
what you have charged me with ,  that have I done— And more ,  much more . 	I’ve done everything you accuse me of—and more ,  much more . 
the time will bring it out . 	you’ll find out everything in due time . 
tis past ,  and so am I . 	It’s all over now ,  and so am I .   Let’s forgive each other . 
I am no less in blood than thou art ,  Edmund . 	I’m no less noble than you are ,  Edmund . 
If more ,  the more thou’st wronged me . 	If I’m more noble than you ,  you’ve done me wrong . 
my name is Edgar ,  and thy father’s son . 	my name is Edgar ,  and I’m your father’s son . 
the gods are just ,  and of our pleasant vices Make instruments to plague us . 	the gods are fair ,  and they use our little vices to punish us . 
thou’st spoken right . 	you’re right . 
tis true . 	that’s true . 
I must embrace thee . 	let me embrace you . 
let sorrow split my heart if ever I Did hate thee or thy father . 	I swear I never hated you or your father ! 
worthy prince ,  I know ’t . 	I know ,  prince . 
where have you hid yourself ? 	where have you been hiding ? 
how have you known the miseries of your father ? 	how did you know what happened to your poor father ? 
list a brief tale ,  And when ’tis told ,  oh ,  that my heart would burst ! 	listen to my little story ,  and when it’s done ,  oh ,  my heart will break ! 
the bloody proclamation to escape ,  That followed me so near—O our lives' sweetness , 	to escape the decree condemning me
and in this habit Met I my father with his bleeding rings ,  Their precious stones new lost ,  became his guide ,  Led him ,  begged for him ,  saved him from despair . 	I became his guide ,  I led him and begged for him ,  and kept him from suicide . 
never—O fault ! —revealed myself unto him Until some half - hour past ,  when I was armed . 	I never—oh ,  what a mistake ! —revealed myself to him until half an hour ago ,  when I was in my armor . 
but his flawed heart— Alack ,  too weak the conflict to support— 'Twixt two extremes of passion ,  joy and grief ,  Burst smilingly . 	but his frail heart ,  too weak to grapple with such a conflict between joy and sadness ,  gave out . 
this speech of yours hath moved me ,  And shall perchance do good . 	your words have moved me ,  and maybe it’ll do some good . 
but speak you on . 	but go on . 
you look as you had something more to say . 	you look like you have something more to say . 
If there be more ,  more woeful ,  hold it in . 	If there’s anything more sorrowful left to add ,  keep it to yourself . 
for I am almost ready to dissolve ,  Hearing of this . 	I’m almost ready to break down hearing this much . 
this would have seemed a period To such as love not sorrow ,  but another To amplify too much would make much more And top extremity . 	this may have seemed like the pinnacle of sadness ,  but if I went on I could outdo it . 
twice then the trumpets sounded ,  And there I left him tranced . 	then I heard the trumpets blow twice ,  and left him there in a trance . 
but who was this ? 	but who was that man ? 
kent ,  sir ,  the banished Kent ,  who in disguise Followed his enemy king and did him service Improper for a slave . 	It was Kent ,  sir ,  the exiled Kent ,  who ,  after the king treated him like an enemy of the state ,  put on a disguise and followed his king ,  carrying out tasks unworthy of even a slave . 
help ,  help ,  O ,  help ! 	help ,  help ,  oh ,  help ! 
what kind of help ? 	what kind of help do you need ? 
speak ,  man . 	say something ,  man ! 
what means that bloody knife ? 	what is that bloody knife ? 
tis hot ,  it smokes . 	It’s still warm from the cut . 
It came even from the heart of—oh ,  she’s dead ! 	It was just removed from from the heart of—oh ,  she’s dead ! 
who dead ? 	who’s dead ? 
speak ,  man . 	speak ,  man . 
your lady ,  sir ,  your lady . 	your wife ,  sir ,  your wife . 
and her sister By her is poisoned . 	and her sister’s dead too ,  poisoned by your wife . 
she confesses it . 	she confessed . 
I was contracted to them both . 	I was engaged to both of them . 
all three Now marry in an instant . 	all three of us will marry now in death . 
here comes Kent . 	here comes Kent . 
I thought the king had more affected the Duke of Albany than Cornwall . 	I thought the king preferred the Duke of Albany to the Duke of Cornwall . 
It did always seem so to us . 	we used to think so too . 
but now in the division of the kingdom ,  it appears not which of the dukes he values most ,  for equalities are so weighed that curiosity in neither can make choice of either’s moiety . 	but the way he’s divided the kingdom recently ,  nobody can tell which of the dukes he favors more . 
his breeding ,  sir ,  hath been at my charge . 	yes ,  I’ve been responsible for his upbringing . 
I have so often blushed to acknowledge him that now I am brazed to it . 	I’ve had to acknowledge that he’s my son so many times that now I can do it without embarrassment . 
do you smell a fault ? 	do you smell something naughty ? 
I cannot wish the fault undone ,  the issue of it being so proper . 	well ,  I wouldn’t want to undo the naughtiness ,  since the boy turned out so well . 
but I have ,  sir ,  a son by order of law ,  some year older than this ,  who yet is no dearer in my account . 	but I have a legitimate son a few years older than this one ,  and I don’t love him any more than I love my bastard . 
oh ,  is this he ? 	oh ,  is that Kent ? 
I am come To bid my king and master aye good night . 	I’ve come to say farewell to my king and master . 
Is he not here ? 	Isn’t he here ? 
great thing of us forgot ! — Speak ,  Edmund ,  where’s the king ? 	what an enormous thing for us to forget ! —Edmund ,  tell us ,  where’s the king ? 
and where’s Cordelia ? — Seest thou this object ,  Kent ? 	and where’s Cordelia ? — Do you see this ,  Kent ? 
alack ,  why thus ? 	oh ,  why is this so ? 
yet Edmund was beloved . 	still ,  Edmund was beloved . 
the one the other poisoned for my sake ,  And after slew herself . 	one of the sisters poisoned the other out of love for me ,  and then killed herself . 
even so . —Cover their faces . 	apparently so . —Cover their faces . 
I pant for life . 	I wish I could live longer . 
some good I mean to do Despite of mine own nature . 	I want to do a little good despite my evil nature . 
quickly send— Be brief in it—to th' castle ,  for my writ Is on the life of Lear and on Cordelia . 	go quickly—hurry—to the castle ,  for I’ve given orders to have Lear and Cordelia killed . 
nay ,  send in time ! 	hurry ,  send someone immediately ! 
run ,  run ,  O ,  run ! 	run ,  run ,  oh ,  run ! 
to who ,  my lord ? —Who hath the office ? 	whom should we look for in the castle ? —Whose job is it ? 
send Thy token of reprieve . 	send something along to prove you’re withdrawing the orders . 
well thought on . 	good idea . 
take my sword . 	take my sword . 
the captain— Give it the captain . 	the captain—give it to the captain . 
haste thee for thy life . 	run as if your life depended on it . 
he hath commission from thy wife and me To hang Cordelia in the prison and To lay the blame upon her own despair ,  That she fordid herself . 	my wife and I ordered him to hang Cordelia in prison and then to make it look as if she committed suicide in despair . 
the gods defend her ! —hear him hence awhile . 	heaven help her ! —Get him out of here for now . 
howl ,  howl ,  howl ,  howl ! 	howl ,  howl ,  howl ,  howl ! 
oh ,  you are men of stones . 	oh ,  you men are made of stone ! 
had I your tongues and eyes ,  I’d use them so That heaven’s vault should crack . 	If I were you with eyes and a tongue to speak with ,  I’d crack heaven wide open with my laments ! 
she’s gone forever . 	she’s gone forever . 
I know when one is dead and when one lives . 	I know how to tell when someone is alive or dead . 
she’s dead as earth . 	she’s as dead as the cold ground . 
lend me a looking - glass . 	let me borrow a mirror . 
If that her breath will mist or stain the stone ,  Why then ,  she lives . 	If her breath steams up the glass ,  then she’s alive . 
or image of that horror ? 	or just a foretaste of it ? 
fall and cease . 	let the world collapse around us . 
this feather stirs . 	this feather moved because of her breath . 
she lives . 	she’s alive . 
If it be so ,  It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows That ever I have felt . 	If that’s true ,  it makes up for all the sorrows I’ve ever known . 
o my good master ! 	oh ,  my good master ! 
prithee ,  away . 	please ,  go away . 
tis noble Kent ,  your friend . 	It’s noble Kent ,  your friend . 
a plague upon you ,  murderers ,  traitors all ! 	curse you all ,  you’re all murderers and traitors ! 
I might have saved her . 	I could have saved her . 
now she’s gone for ever . — Cordelia ,  Cordelia ,  stay a little . 	now she’s gone forever . —Cordelia ,  Cordelia ,  stay a while . 
ha ? 	ha ? 
tis true ,  my lords ,  he did . 	It’s true ,  my lords ,  he did . 
did I not ,  fellow ? 	didn’t I ? 
I am old now ,  And these same crosses spoil me . 	but I’m old now ,  and suffering has weakened me . 
this a dull sight . 	my vision is dull . 
are you not Kent ? 	aren’t you Kent ? 
the same . 	that’s me . 
your servant Kent . 	your servant Kent . 
where is your servant Caius ? 	where’s your servant
he’s a good fellow ,  I can tell you that . 	he’s a good fellow ,  I can tell you that much . 
he’s dead and rotten . 	he’s dead and rotting in the dirt now . 
no ,  my good lord . 	no ,  my lord ,  that was me . 
I am the very man— I’ll see that straight . 	I’m the one who— I’ll get right on that . 
that from your first of difference and decay Have followed your sad steps . 	followed you on your sad wanderings ,  ever since your bad luck began . 
you’re welcome hither . 	nice to see you . 
nor no man else . 	It was me ,  no one else . 
all’s cheerless ,  dark ,  and deadly . 	everything is gloomy ,  dark ,  and dreadful . 
your eldest daughters have fordone themselves ,  And desperately are dead . 	your eldest daughters destroyed themselves and died in despair . 
ay ,  so I think . 	yes ,  I think that’s true . 
he knows not what he says ,  and vain it is That we present us to him . 	he doesn’t know what he’s saying . 
edmund is dead ,  my lord . 	edmund is dead ,  my lord . 
for us ,  we will resign During the life of this old majesty To him our absolute power . 	as for me ,  I’m surrendering all my power over to him ,  giving him absolute authority for the rest of his life . 
he faints ! —My lord ,  my lord ! 	and my poor  He’s fainted . —My lord ,  my lord ! 
vex not his ghost . 	don’t disturb his soul . 
o ,  let him pass . 	let it go up to heaven . 
oh ,  he is gone indeed . 	oh ,  he’s really gone . 
the wonder is he hath endured so long . 	what’s amazing is how long he lasted . 
bear them from hence . 	carry them away . 
our present business Is to general woe . 	our business now is mourning and grief . 
why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter ? 	why are you hiding that letter ? 
I know no news ,  my lord . 	I don’t have any news to report ,  my lord . 
what paper were you reading ? 	what’s that paper you were reading ? 
nothing ,  my lord . 	It’s nothing ,  my lord . 
no ? 	no ? 
what needed ,  then ,  that terrible dispatch of it into your pocket ? 	then why did you have to stick it in your pocket in such a hurry ? 
the quality of nothing hath not such need to hide itself . 	If it were nothing ,  you wouldn’t need to hide it . 
I beseech you ,  sir ,  pardon me . 	please ,  sir ,  I beg you . 
It is a letter from my brother that I have not all o'er - read . 	It’s a letter from my brother that I haven’t finished reading yet . 
give me the letter ,  sir . 	give me that letter ,  sir . 
I shall offend ,  either to detain or give it . 	now I’ll offend you whether I give it to you or not . 
the contents ,  as in part I understand them ,  are to blame . 	the problem is in what the letter says ,  as far as I can tell . 
I hope ,  for my brother’s justification ,  he wrote this but as an essay or taste of my virtue . 	I hope for my brother’s sake that he just wrote it to test my honor . 
I have a journey ,  sir ,  shortly to go . 	I will have to go on a journey to death soon ,  sir . 
my master calls me . 	my master’s calling me . 
I must not say no . 	I can’t say no . 
the weight of this sad time we must obey . 	we must remember the gravity of this sad day . 
speak what we feel ,  not what we ought to say . 	we should speak what we feel ,  not what we ought to say . 
come to me ,  that of this I may speak more . 	come talk to me about this . 
If our father would sleep till I waked him ,  you should enjoy half his revenue forever ,  and live the beloved of your brother ,        Edgar .  ”   Hum ,  conspiracy ? 	If our father were dead you’d receive half of his revenue forever ,  and you’d have my undying love ,       Edgar .  ”  Hmm ,  what’s this ,  a conspiracy ? 
had he a hand to write this ,  a heart and brain to breed it in ? 	how could he have even entertained these thoughts in his heart ? 
when came this to you ? 	how did you get this letter ? 
who brought it ? 	who delivered it ? 
It was not brought me ,  my lord . 	nobody delivered it ,  my lord . 
there’s the cunning of it . 	that’s what’s clever about it . 
I found it thrown in at the casement of my closet . 	It was tossed into the window of my room . 
you know the character to be your brother’s ? 	you’re sure the handwriting is your brother’s ? 
If the matter were good ,  my lord ,  I durst swear it were his . 	If he’d written nice things ,  I’d swear yes right away . 
but in respect of that ,  I would fain think it were not . 	but as it stands ,  I wish I could believe it wasn’t . 
It is his . 	but it is his handwriting ? 
It is his hand ,  my lord ,  but I hope his heart is not in the contents . 	It’s his handwriting ,  my lord ,  but I hope he didn’t mean what he wrote . 
has he never before sounded you in this business ? 	has he ever tested out these ideas on you before ? 
never ,  my lord . 	never ,  my lord . 
but I have heard him oft maintain it to be fit that ,  sons at perfect age and fathers declined ,  the father should be as ward to the son ,  and the son manage his revenue . 	but I’ve often heard him argue that when sons are at their prime and their fathers are declining ,  the sons should be their fathers' guardians and manage their fathers' money . 
o villain ,  villain ! 	oh ,  what a villain ! 
his very opinion in the letter ! 	that’s just what he said in the letter . 
abhorred villain ! 	evil villain ! 
go ,  sirrah ,  seek him . 	go look for him . 
I’ll apprehend him . 	I’ll arrest him . 
abominable villain ! 	horrid villain ! 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
I do not well know ,  my lord . 	I’m not sure ,  my lord . 
I dare pawn down my life for him that he hath wrote this to feel my affection to your honor and to no other pretense of danger . 	I’ll bet my life that he only wrote this letter to gauge my love for you ,  and for no other reason . 
think you so ? 	do you think so ? 
he cannot be such a monster— Nor is not ,  sure . 	he can’t possibly be such a monster— And I’m sure he isn’t . 
to his father ,  that so tenderly and entirely loves him . 	toward his own father who loves him so completely . 
heaven and earth ! 	oh ,  God ! 
edmund ,  seek him out ,  wind me into him ,  I pray you . 	edmund ,  go find him . 
I will seek him ,  sir ,  presently ,  convey the business as I shall find means ,  and acquaint you withal . 	I’ll find him right away ,  sir ,  and carry out the business as well as I can . 
these late eclipses in the sun and moon portend no good to us . 	these recent eclipses of the sun and moon don’t bode well for us . 
though the wisdom of nature can reason it thus and thus ,  yet nature finds itself scourged by the sequent effects . 	though science can explain them away ,  disasters still come after eclipses . 
love cools ,  friendship falls off ,  brothers divide ,  in cities	love cools off ,  friendships break up ,  and brothers become enemies . 
mutinies ,  in countries discord ,  in palaces treason ,  and the bond cracked ’twixt son and father . 	break out ,  civil war erupts ,  kings are betrayed ,  and the bond between father and son snaps . 
this villain of mine comes under the prediction—there’s son against father . 	this wicked son of mine confirms the prediction —son against father . 
the king falls from bias of nature—there’s father against child . 	the king acts unnaturally—father against child . 
we have seen the best of our time . 	we’ve seen the best our age has to offer . 
machinations ,  hollowness ,  treachery ,  and all ruinous disorders follow us disquietly to our graves . 	conspiracies ,  fakery ,  betrayal ,  and disorder are all that’s left until we die . 
find out this villain ,  Edmund . 	find out what this villainous Edgar is thinking ,  Edmund . 
It shall lose thee nothing . 	you won’t lose any respect . 
do it carefully . —And the noble and true - hearted Kent banished ,  his offense honesty ! 	just do it carefully . —And to think that the noble and loyal Kent has been banished ,  for the crime of telling the truth ! 
tis strange ,  strange . 	It’s strange ,  strange . 
this is the excellent foppery of the world that when we are sick in fortune—often the surfeit of our own behavior—we make guilty of our disasters the sun ,  the moon ,  and the stars ,  as if we were villains by necessity ,  fools by heavenly compulsion ,  knaves ,  thieves ,  and treachers by spherical predominance ,  drunkards ,  liars ,  and adulterers by an enforced obedience of planetary influence ,  and all that we are evil in by a divine thrusting - on . 	this is a classic example of the idiocy of the world: when we’re down and out—often because of our own excesses —we put all the blame on the sun ,  the moon ,  and the stars ,  as if they forced us to be bad ,  or the heavens compelled us to be villainous or stupid . 
my father compounded with my mother under the dragon’s tail and my nativity was under Ursa Major ,  so that it follows I am rough and lecherous . 	my father and mother coupled when the demonic moon was descending ,  and I was born under the Big Dipper ,  so it’s inevitable that I’m rude and oversexed . 
fut ,  I should have been that I am ,  had the maidenliest star in the firmament twinkled on my bastardizing . 	I would have been what I am even if the most virginal star in the heavens had twinkled at my conception . 
fa ,  sol ,  la ,  mi . 	fa ,  sol ,  la ,  mi . 
how now ,  brother Edmund ? 	hello ,  brother Edmund . 
what serious contemplation are you in ? 	what are you thinking about so seriously ? 
how long have you been a sectary astronomical ? 	how long have you believed in astrology ? 
come ,  come . 	come on . 
when saw you my father last ? 	when was the last time you saw my father ? 
why ,  the night gone by . 	why ,  last night . 
spake you with him ? 	did you speak to him ? 
ay ,  two hours together . 	yes ,  we talked for a couple of hours . 
parted you in good terms ? 	did you leave on good terms ? 
found you no displeasure in him by word or countenance ? 	did he express any dissatisfaction with you ,  either in his words or his face ? 
none at all . 	no ,  none at all . 
some villain hath done me wrong . 	some villain has told lies about me . 
that’s my fear . 	that’s what I’m afraid of . 
I pray you ,  have a continent forbearance till the speed of his rage goes slower . 	I suggest you lay low until his rage cools a little . 
and as I say ,  retire with me to my lodging ,  from whence I will fitly bring you to hear my lord speak . 	In the meantime ,  come home with me ,  and when the time is right I’ll take you to talk to him . 
pray ye ,  go . 	please go . 
there’s my key . 	here’s my key . 
If you do stir abroad ,  go armed . 	If you go outside ,  arm yourself . 
armed ,  brother ? 	arm myself ? 
brother ,  I advise you to the best . 	brother ,  I’m giving you good advice . 
go armed . 	arm yourself . 
pray you ,  away . 	now please go . 
shall I hear from you anon ? 	will I hear from you soon ? 
I do serve you in this business . 	I’ll help you through this business . 
a credulous father ,  and a brother noble— Whose nature is so far from doing harms That he suspects none ,  on whose foolish honesty My practices ride easy . 	a gullible father and a brother who’s so innocent that he can’t suspect anyone else of wanting to hurt him—these are the two fools I need for my plan to work . 
I see the business . 	I know exactly how to proceed . 
let me ,  if not by birth ,  have lands by wit . 	If I can’t have an estate by birthright ,  then I’ll get it by being clever . 
all with me’s meet that I can fashion fit . 	any trick that works is good for me . 
did my father strike my gentleman For chiding of his fool ? 	did my father hit one of my attendants for scolding his fool ? 
ay ,  madam . 	yes ,  ma'am . 
by day and night he wrongs me . 	he constantly offends me . 
every hour He flashes into one gross crime or other That sets us all at odds . 	every hour he comes out with some horrible new offense that puts us all on edge . 
I’ll not endure it . 	I won’t stand for it . 
his knights grow riotous ,  and himself upbraids us On every trifle . 	his knights are getting out of control ,  and he himself reprimands us about every little detail . 
when he returns from hunting ,  I will not speak with him . 	when he comes back from hunting ,  I’m not going to speak to him . 
say I am sick . 	tell him I’m sick . 
If you come slack of former services ,  You shall do well . 	and if you’re not as attentive in serving him as you used to be ,  that’ll be good . 
the fault of it I’ll answer . 	I’ll take responsibility for it . 
he’s coming ,  madam . 	he’s coming ,  ma'am . 
I hear him . 	I hear him . 
put on what weary negligence you please ,  You and your fellow servants . 	be as lazy and neglectful as you like around him—you and the other servants . 
If he distaste it ,  let him to our sister ,  Whose mind and mine I know in that are one ,  Not to be overruled . 	If he doesn’t like it ,  he can go live with my sister . 
Idle old man That still would manage those authorities That he hath given away ! 	that useless old man still thinks he can wield all the powers he’s given away . 
now by my life ,  Old fools are babes again and must be used With checks as flatteries ,  when they are seen abused . 	I swear ,  old fools become like babies again . 
remember what I have said . 	remember what I’ve told you . 
very well ,  madam . 	very well ,  ma'am . 
and let his knights have colder looks among you . 	and make sure the servants are less friendly to his knights . 
what grows of it ,  no matter . 	don’t worry about the consequences . 
advise your fellows so . 	tell your men as much . 
I would breed from hence occasions ,  and I shall ,  That I may speak . 	I want this to provoke confrontations ,  so I can give him a piece of my mind . 
I’ll write straight to my sister To hold my very course . 	I’ll write to my sister and tell her my plans . 
go ,  prepare for dinner . 	now go ,  set up for dinner . 
If but as well I other accents borrow ,  That can my speech diffuse ,  my good intent May carry through itself to that full issue For which I razed my likeness . 	If I can disguise my voice as well as my appearance ,  then I’ll be able to carry out my plan perfectly . 
now ,  banished Kent ,  If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemned ,  So may it come thy master ,  whom thou lovest ,  Shall find thee full of labors . 	I love my master ,  and he’ll find me very hard - working . 
let me not stay a jot for dinner . 	don’t make me wait for dinner even a moment . 
go get it ready . 	get it ready immediately . 
a man ,  sir . 	a man ,  sir . 
what dost thou profess ? 	what’s your profession ? 
what wouldst thou with us ? 	what do you want from me ? 
what art thou ? 	but who are you ? 
a very honest - hearted fellow ,  and as poor as the king . 	an honest guy who’s as poor as the king . 
If thou beest as poor for a subject as he’s for a king ,  thou'rt poor enough . 	If you’re as poor a subject as he is a king ,  you definitely are poor . 
what wouldst thou ? 	what do you want ? 
service . 	to work as a servant . 
who wouldst thou serve ? 	who do you want to work for ? 
you . 	you . 
dost thou know me ,  fellow ? 	do you know me ? 
authority . 	authority . 
what services canst thou do ? 	what work can you do ? 
I can keep honest counsel ,  ride ,  run ,  mar a curious tale in telling it ,  and deliver a plain message bluntly . 	I can be discreet in honorable matters ,  ride a horse ,  run ,  tell a good story badly ,  and deliver a plain message bluntly . 
that which ordinary men are fit for ,  I am qualified in . 	I’m good at everything that ordinary men can do . 
and the best of me is diligence . 	the best thing about me is that I’m hardworking . 
how old art thou ? 	how old are you ? 
not so young ,  sir ,  to love a woman for singing ,  nor so old to dote on her for anything . 	not young enough to fall in love with a woman because she sings well ,  but not old enough to dote on a woman for any reason . 
I have years on my back forty -  eight . 	I’m forty - eight . 
follow me . 	follow me . 
thou shalt serve me . 	you’ll work for me . 
where’s my knave ,  my fool ? —Go you ,  and call my fool hither . 	where’s my fool ? —Go call my fool and have him come here . 
no ,  my lord . 	no ,  I don’t ,  my lord . 
my services to your lordship . 	very pleased to meet you ,  my lord . 
I must love you and sue to know you better . 	I look forward to getting to know you better . 
sir ,  I shall study deserving . 	I’ll try to make myself worth your knowledge . 
he hath been out nine years ,  and away he shall again . 	he’s been gone for nine years and he’s leaving again soon . 
the king is coming . 	the king is coming . 
attend the lords of France and Burgundy ,  Gloucester . 	go escort the lords of France and Burgundy ,  Gloucester . 
I shall ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
you ,  you ,  sirrah ,  where’s my daughter ? 	you ,  sir ,  where’s my daughter ? 
so please you— What says the fellow there ? 	I beg your pardon ,  sir— What did that guy say ? 
call the clotpoll back . 	call the numbskull back in here . 
where’s my fool ,  ho ? 	where’s my fool ? 
I think the world’s asleep . 	you’d think everyone was asleep . 
how now ? 	so what’s going on ? 
where’s that mongrel ? 	where’s that dog ? 
he says ,  my lord ,  your daughter is not well . 	he says your daughter’s not feeling well ,  my lord . 
why came not the slave back to me when I called him . 	why didn’t the jerk come back to me when I called him ? 
sir ,  he answered me in the roundest manner he would not . 	sir ,  he told me quite bluntly that he didn’t feel like it . 
he would not ? 	didn’t feel like it ? 
my lord ,  I know not what the matter is ,  but to my judgment your highness is not entertained with that ceremonious affection as you were wont . 	my lord ,  I don’t know what’s going on ,  but it seems to me that your highness isn’t being treated as politely as before . 
there’s a great abatement of kindness appears as well in the general dependants as in the duke himself also ,  and your daughter . 	the servants ,  the duke ,  and your daughter all seem to be treating you less kindly . 
ha ! 	huh ! 
sayest thou so ? 	do you really mean that ? 
I beseech you pardon me ,  my lord ,  if I be mistaken—for my duty cannot be silent when I think your highness wronged . 	please forgive me if I’m mistaken ,  my lord—but I can’t keep quiet when I think you’re being insulted . 
thou but rememberest me of mine own conception . 	no ,  you’re just reminding me of something I’ve also noticed . 
I have perceived a most faint neglect of late ,  which I have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity than as a very pretense and purpose of unkindness . 	I’ve felt neglected recently ,  but I decided that it was more likely that I was being hypersensitive than that they were intentionally unkind . 
I will look further into ’t . 	I’ll look into it further . 
but where’s my fool ? 	but where’s my fool ? 
I have not seen him this two days . 	I haven’t seen him for two days . 
since my young lady’s going into France ,  sir ,  the fool hath much pined away . 	ever since Cordelia left for France ,  sir ,  the fool has been depressed . 
no more of that . 	let’s not talk about it . 
I have noted it well . 	I’ve noticed it myself . 
go you and tell my daughter I would speak with her . 	go and tell my daughter I want to speak with her . 
go you ,  call hither my fool . 	and you ,  go call my fool . 
o you sir ,  you ,  come you hither ,  sir . 	you there ,  sir ,  come here please . 
who am I ,  sir ? 	who am I ,  sir ? 
you slave ,  you cur ! 	you scoundrel ! 
I am none of these ,  my lord . 	you lowlife son - of - a - bitch ! 
I beseech your pardon . 	you dog ,  you peasant ! 
I’ll not be strucken ,  my lord . 	I won’t be hit ,  my lord . 
now ,  my friendly knave ,  I thank thee . 	now ,  my friendly servant ,  thank you . 
let me hire him too . —Here’s my coxcomb . 	wait ,  let me hire him too . —Here’s my fool’s cap ,  a token of my gratitude . 
how now ,  my pretty knave ? 	well hello ,  my good boy . 
how dost thou ? 	how are you doing ? 
why ,  Fool ? 	why ,  Fool ? 
why ? 	why ? 
for taking one’s part that’s out of favor . 	for standing up for this unpopular king . 
nay ,  an thou canst not smile as the wind sits ,  thou'lt catch cold shortly . 	no ,  if you can’t adjust to political changes ,  you’ll suffer for it . 
there ,  take my coxcomb . 	there ,  take my fool’s cap . 
why ,  this fellow has banished two on ’s daughters ,  and did the third a blessing against his will . 	this guy here has banished two of his daughters and blessed the third one without intending to . 
If thou follow him ,  thou must needs wear my coxcomb . —How now ,  nuncle ? 	If you work for him ,  you’re a fool and should wear a fool’s cap . —So how’s it going ,  uncle ? 
would I had two coxcombs and two daughters . 	I wish I had two fool’s caps and two daughters . 
why ,  my boy ? 	why ,  my boy ? 
If I gave them all my living ,  I’d keep my coxcombs myself . 	If I gave them all I own ,  I’d have two fool’s caps for myself . 
there’s mine . 	here’s mine . 
beg another of thy daughters . 	ask your daughters for another one . 
take heed ,  sirrah—the whip . 	watch out ,  boy—remember I can whip you . 
a pestilent gall to me ! 	a constant pain to me ! 
sirrah ,  I’ll teach thee a speech . 	I’ll recite something for you ,  guy . 
do . 	yes ,  do that . 
mark it ,  nuncle . 	listen up ,  uncle . 
have more than thou showest ,  Speak less than thou knowest ,  Lend less than thou owest ,  Ride more than thou goest ,  Learn more than thou trowest ,  Set less than thou throwest ,  Leave thy drink and thy whore And keep in - a - door ,  And thou shalt have more Than two tens to a score . 	have more than you show ,  Speak less than you know ,  Lend less than you owe . 
this is nothing ,  Fool . 	It’s nothing . 
then ’tis like the breath of an unfee’d lawyer . 	In that case it’s like the words of an unpaid lawyer . 
why no ,  boy . 	why ,  no ,  boy . 
nothing can be made out of nothing . 	nothing can be made out of nothing . 
a bitter fool . 	you’re a bitter fool . 
dost thou know the difference ,  my boy ,  between a bitter fool and a sweet fool ? 	do you know the difference ,  my boy ,  between a bitter fool and a sweet one ? 
no ,  lad . 	no ,  son . 
teach me . 	tell me . 
that lord that counseled thee To give away thy land ,  Come place him here by me . 	bring here The gentleman who advised you To give away your land . 
do thou for him stand . 	you can stand in his place . 
the sweet and bitter fool Will presently appear— The one in motley here ,  The other found out there . 	the sweet and bitter fool Will appear right away . 
dost thou call me fool ,  boy ? 	the sweet fool in a fool’s costume—that’s me . 
all thy other titles thou hast given away that thou wast born with . 	the bitter one is the other one—that’s you . LEAR Are you calling me a fool ,  boy ? 
this is not altogether fool ,  my lord . 	well ,  you’ve given away all your other rightful titles . 
no ,  faith ,  lords and great men will not let me . 	no . 
what two crowns shall they be ? 	which two crowns would those be ? 
why—after I have cut the egg i' th' middle and eat up the meat—the two crowns of the egg . 	well ,  when I cut the egg in half and eat the whites ,  the yolk will be in two parts like two golden crowns . 
If I speak like myself in this ,  let him be whipped that first finds it so . 	If I’m telling the truth like a fool in saying all this ,  whip the first person who thinks I sound foolish . 
when were you wont to be so full of songs ,  sirrah ? 	when did you become so fond of singing ,  boy ? 
I have used it ,  nuncle ,  ever since thou madest thy daughters thy mothers . 	I’ve been singing ever since you made your daughters into your mothers by giving them all your power . 
for when thou gavest them the rod ,  and put’st down thine own breeches ,             Prithee ,  nuncle ,  keep a schoolmaster that can teach thy fool to lie . 	that’s when you gave them the spanking paddle and pulled your pants down ,             Please ,  uncle ,  hire a teacher who can teach your fool to lie . 
I would fain learn to lie . 	I want to learn how to lie . 
an you lie ,  sirrah ,  we’ll have you whipped . 	If you lie ,  boy ,  we’ll have you whipped . 
I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are . 	I’m amazed how similar you and your daughters are . 
they’ll have me whipped for speaking true ,  thou'lt have me whipped for lying ,  and sometimes I am whipped for holding my peace . 	they want to whip me for telling the truth ,  you want to whip me for lying ,  and sometimes I’m even whipped for keeping quiet . 
I had rather be any kind o' thing than a fool . 	I’d rather be anything besides a fool . 
and yet I would not be thee ,  nuncle . 	and yet I wouldn’t want to be you ,  uncle . 
here comes one o' the parings . 	here comes the owner of one piece . 
how now ,  daughter ? 	what’s going on ,  daughter ? 
what makes that frontlet on ? 	why are you frowning like that ? 
methinks you are too much of late i' th' frown . 	I think you’ve been frowning too much recently . 
he that keeps nor crust nor crumb ,   Weary of all ,  shall want some . 	the man who gives away his crust and his crumbs Will discover that he needs some crumbs back . 
but other of your insolent retinue Do hourly carp and quarrel ,  breaking forth In rank and not - to - be - endurèd riots . 	will damage your reputation with them—and under ordinary circumstances it would be unfortunate to have them see you as an ogre . 
which else were shame ,  that then necessity Will call discreet proceeding . 	however ,  this is an extreme situation ,  and it’s more important to control it than to worry about how you’ll look . 
for you know ,  nuncle ,  The hedge - sparrow fed the cuckoo so long ,  That it’s had it head bit off by it young . 	you know ,  uncle ,  A sparrow once raised a cuckoo in its nest Until the cuckoo grew up and bit the sparrow’s head off . 
so out went the candle and we were left darkling . 	so the candle went out and now we’re all in the dark . 
are you our daughter ? 	are you my daughter ? 
does any here know me ? 	does anyone here know who I am ? 
why ,  this is not Lear . 	I’m not Lear . 
where are his eyes ? 	where are his eyes ? 
sure ,  ’tis not so . 	I don’t think so . 
who is it that can tell me who I am ? 	who can tell me who I am ? 
lear’s shadow . 	you’re Lear’s shadow . 
which they will make an obedient father . 	daughters who can make you obey them . 
this admiration ,  sir ,  is much o' th' savor Of other your new pranks . 	this fake astonishment of yours is just like your other pranks . 
I do beseech you To understand my purposes aright . 	I’m asking you to understand my point of view . 
as you are old and reverend ,  should be wise . 	since you’re old and respected ,  you should be wise . 
here do you keep a hundred knights and squires ,  Men so disordered ,  so debauched and bold That this our court ,  infected with their manners ,  Shows like a riotous inn . 	but you’re keeping a hundred knights here who are so disorderly ,  vulgar ,  and obnoxious that our noble court is starting to look like a noisy cheap hotel . 
epicurism and lust Make it more like a tavern or a brothel Than a graced palace . 	they’re such oversexed gluttons that I feel like we’re living in a pub or a whorehouse rather than a respectable palace . 
the shame itself doth speak For instant remedy . 	It’s shameful ,  and we have to make some changes right away . 
darkness and devils ! 	hell and damnation ! 
saddle my horses . 	saddle up my horses . 
call my train together . — Degenerate bastard ,  I’ll not trouble thee . 	call my knights together . 
yet have I left a daughter . 	you’re not really my daughter ,  but I still have one daughter left . 
you strike my people ,  and your disordered rabble Make servants of their betters . 	you hit my servants ,  and your disorderly mob of knights treat their superiors like servants . 
woe that too late repents ! —   Is it your will ? 	you’ll be sorry later ,  but it’ll be too late . 
Ingratitude ,  thou marble - hearted fiend ,  More hideous when thou show’st thee in a child Than the sea monster . 	Ingratitude is always hideous ,  but an ungrateful child is uglier than a sea monster ! 
pray ,  sir ,  be patient . 	please ,  sir ,  be patient . 
It may be so ,  my lord . 	that may be true ,  my lord . 
hear ,  Nature ,  hear ,  dear goddess ,  hear ! 	ah ,  dear Nature ,  my goddess ,  listen to me ! 
dry up in her the organs of increase ,  And from her derogate body never spring A babe to honor her . 	make her sterile and dry up her womb so that no baby will ever come out of her body and honor her . 
to thine and Albany’s issue Be this perpetual . —What says our second daughter ,  Our dearest Regan ,  wife of Cornwall ? 	this land will belong to your and Albany’s children forever . —And now what does my second daughter Regan ,  the wife of Cornwall ,  have to say ? 
speak . 	tell me . 
now gods that we adore ,  whereof comes this ? 	dear gods in heaven ,  what’s the reason for this ? 
thou shalt find That I’ll resume the shape which thou dost think I have cast off for ever . 	and then you’ll see that despite what you thought ,  I’ll be as powerful as I was before . 
thou shalt ,  I warrant thee . 	you’ll see ,  I promise you . 
do you mark that ,  my lord ? 	did you hear that ? 
I cannot be so partial ,  Goneril ,  To the great love I bear you—      Pray you ,  content . 	goneril ,  you know how much I love you ,  but still I have to say— Shush ,  please . 
come ,  sire ,  no more . —What ,  Oswald ,  ho ! 	come ,  sir ,  no more . —Oswald ,  come here ! 
a fox when one has caught her And such a daughter Should sure to the slaughter ,  If my cap would buy a halter . 	a fox you’ve trapped And such a daughter Should both be slaughtered ,  If my fool’s cap is worth a rope to bind them . 
so the fool follows after . 	so the fool follows you . 
this man hath had good counsel—a hundred knights ! 	my father can’t think straight—a hundred knights ! 
well ,  you may fear too far . 	you may be exaggerating the risks . 
safer than trust too far . 	that’s better than exaggerating our trust . 
let me still take away the harms I fear ,  Not fear still to be taken . 	It’s always better to get rid of what you’re scared of than to be afraid . 
I know his heart . 	I know how his mind works . 
what he hath uttered I have writ my sister . 	I’ve written to my sister telling her everything he’s said . 
If she sustain him and his hundred knights When I have showed th' unfitness— Here ,  madam . 	If she welcomes him and his hundred knights after I’ve shown how inappropriately he’s behaved— Here ,  ma'am . 
how now ,  Oswald ? 	well ,  Oswald ? 
what ,  have you writ that letter to my sister ? 	have you written that letter to my sister yet ? 
ay ,  madam . 	yes ,  ma'am . 
take you some company ,  and away to horse . 	take some men and horses and go to her . 
Inform her full of my particular fear ,  And thereto add such reasons of your own As may compact it more . 	add details of your own to back up what I’m saying . 
get you gone And hasten your return . 	now go ,  and hurry back . 
striving to better ,  oft we mar what’s well . 	but people often screw things up trying to make them better . 
nay ,  then— Well ,  well ,  th' event . 	no ,  not at all— All right ,  all right . 
I will not sleep ,  my lord ,  till I have delivered your letter . 	I won’t sleep until I’ve delivered your letter ,  my lord . 
If a man’s brains were in ’s heels ,  were ’t not in danger of kibes ? 	If a man’s brain were in his feet ,  wouldn’t it be susceptible to frostbite ? 
ay ,  boy . 	yes ,  boy . 
ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly . 	your other daughter Regan will treat you kindly ,  you’ll see . 
for though she’s as like this as a crab’s like an apple ,  yet I can tell what I can tell . 	even though she’s as similar to Goneril as one crabapple is like another ,  still… I know what I know . 
why ,  what canst thou tell ,  my boy ? 	and what do you know ,  boy ? 
she will taste as like this as a crab does to a crab . 	I know that Regan will taste just like Goneril—both of them sour crabapples . 
thou canst tell why one’s nose stands i' th' middle on ’s face ? 	do you know why the nose is in the middle of a person’s face ? 
no . 	no . 
why ,  to keep one’s eyes of either side ’s nose ,  that what a man cannot smell out ,  he may spy into . 	why ,  to keep the eyes on the sides ,  so that you can see anything that you can’t sniff out . 
I did her wrong— Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell ? 	I was wrong to her— Do you know how an oyster makes its shell ? 
no . 	no . 
nor I neither . 	me neither . 
but I can tell why a snail has a house . 	but I know why a snail carries its house on its back . 
why ? 	why ? 
why ,  to put ’s head in—not to give it away to his daughters and leave his horns without a case . 	he can’t give his house away to his daughters ,  leaving himself without shelter . 
I will forget my nature . 	I want to forget what I am . 
so kind a father ! —Be my horses ready ? 	such a kind father ! —Are my horses ready ? 
thy asses are gone about 'em . 	your attendant asses are getting the horses ready . 
the reason why the seven stars are no more than seven is a pretty reason . 	there’s a nice reason why the constellation Pleiades has only seven stars in it . 
because they are not eight ? 	because it doesn’t have eight ? 
yes indeed . 	that’s right . 
thou wouldst make a good fool . 	you’d make a good fool . 
to take ’t again perforce— Monster ingratitude ! 	I could take back my crown by force—What outrageous ingratitude ! 
If thou wert my fool ,  nuncle ,  I’d have thee beaten for being old before thy time . 	If you were my fool ,  uncle ,  I’d have you beaten for getting old before your time . 
how’s that ? 	how’s that ? 
thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been wise . 	you’re not supposed to get old until you’re wise . 
o ,  let me not be mad ,  not mad ,  sweet heaven ! 	oh ,  dear God ,  don’t let me go mad ! 
keep me in temper . 	keep me balanced and sane . 
I would not be mad . 	I don’t want to go mad . 
ready ,  my lord . 	they’re ready ,  my lord . 
come ,  boy . 	come on ,  boy . 
save thee ,  Curan . 	hello ,  Curan . 
and you ,  sir . 	hello ,  sir . 
I have been with your father and given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan his duchess will be here with him this night . 	I just saw your father the Lord Gloucester and notified him that the Duke of Cornwall and his wife Regan will stay with him here tonight . 
how comes that ? 	why is that ? 
nay ,  I know not . 	I don’t know . 
have you heard of no likely wars toward ’twixt the two Dukes of Cornwall and Albany ? 	you haven’t heard of the war brewing between the Dukes of Cornwall and Albany ? 
not a word . 	not a word . 
you may do then in time . 	you may hear about it soon . 
fare you well ,  sir . 	goodbye ,  sir . 
the duke be here tonight ? 	the duke will be here tonight ? 
this weaves itself perforce into my business . 	his arrival fits perfectly into my plan . 
briefness and fortune ,  work ! — Brother ,  a word . 	fast work and a little luck are all I need . —Brother ,  could I have a word with you ? 
descend ,  brother ,  I say . 	come down ,  brother . 
my father watches . 	father is on the lookout . 
o sir ,  fly this place . 	get out of here quickly ! 
Intelligence is given where you are hid . 	It has leaked out that you’re hiding here . 
have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall aught ? 	you haven’t said anything against the Duke of Cornwall ,  have you ? 
he’s coming hither—now ,  i' th' night ,  i' th' haste ,  And Regan with him . 	he’s rushing on his way here right now ,  and Regan’s with him . 
advise yourself . 	think about it . 
I hear my father coming . 	I hear my father coming . 
pardon me . 	forgive me . 
In cunning I must draw my sword upon you . 	I have to pretend to threaten you with my sword . 
now quit you well . —             Torches ,  torches ! 	be convincing . 
now Edmund ,  where’s the villain ? 	edmund ,  where’s your wicked brother ? 
look ,  sir ,  I bleed . 	look ,  sir ,  I’m bleeding . 
where is the villain ,  Edmund ? 	where is the villain ,  Edmund ? 
fled this way ,  sir ,  when by no means he could— Pursue him ,  ho ! 	he ran out that way ,  sir ,  when he couldn’t— Follow him ,  now ! 
go after . 	go . 
by no means ”  what ? 	when he couldn’t what ? 
sir ,  in fine ,  Seeing how loathly opposite I stood To his unnatural purpose ,  in fell motion ,  With his preparèd sword he charges home My unprovided body ,  latched mine arm . 	In short ,  when I told him how firmly opposed I was to his hideous plan ,  he pulled out his sword and lunged at my defenseless body ,  cutting my arm . 
and when he saw my best alarumed spirits ,  Bold in the quarrel’s right ,  roused to the encounter ,  Or whether ghasted by the noise I made ,  Full suddenly he fled . 	bolstered by righteousness ,  I prepared to fight ,  and when he saw my excitement—or perhaps because my shouting scared him—he ran away suddenly . 
let him fly far . 	let him run far away . 
not in this land shall he remain uncaught . 	If he stays in this country he’ll be found . 
the noble duke my master ,  My worthy arch and patron ,  comes tonight . 	the Duke of Cornwall ,  my master and patron ,  is arriving tonight . 
and find I am alone felicitate In your dear highness' love . 	joy except my love for you ,  and I find that only your majesty’s love makes me happy . 
speak . 	speak . 
nothing ,  my lord . 	nothing ,  my lord . 
nothing ? 	nothing ? 
nothing . 	nothing . 
nothing will come of nothing . 	come on ,   “ nothing ”  will get you nothing . 
speak again . 	try again . 
unhappy that I am ,  I cannot heave My heart into my mouth . 	I don’t have a talent for putting my heart’s feelings into words . 
I love your majesty According to my bond ,  no more nor less . 	I love you as a child should love her father ,  neither more nor less . 
how ,  how ,  Cordelia ? 	what are you saying ,  Cordelia ? 
mend your speech a little ,  Lest you may mar your fortunes . 	revise your statement ,  or you may damage your inheritance . 
he that conceals him ,  death . 	justice will be rewarded . 
he replied ,   “ Thou unpossessing bastard ! 	he answered ,   “ You penniless bastard ! 
dost thou think If I would stand against thee ,  would the reposal Of any trust ,  virtue ,  or worth in thee Make thy words faithed ? 	do you really think that if it came down to my word against yours ,  anyone would believe you ? 
no . 	no . 
what I should deny— As this I would ,  ay ,  though thou didst produce My very character—I’d turn it all To thy suggestion ,  plot ,  and damnèd practice . 	I’d deny whatever evidence you had against me—even if it were in my own handwriting—and turn it all into evidence against you and your plans for treachery . 
and thou must make a dullard of the world ,  If they not thought the profits of my death Were very pregnant and potential spirits To make thee seek it .  ”     O strange and fastened villain ! 	and you must think people are stupid if you believe they wouldn’t realize all the motives you have for trying to kill me .  ”  Oh ,  how monstrously evil ! 
would he deny his letter ,  said he ? 	he said he would deny that he wrote his letter ? 
I never got him . — Hark ,  the duke’s trumpets . 	the duke’s trumpets . 
I know not why he comes . 	I don’t know why he’s come here . 
all ports I’ll bar . 	I’ll forbid all ships from leaving our harbors . 
the villain shall not ’scape . 	the villain won’t escape . 
the duke must grant me that . 	the duke will agree with me on that . 
how now ,  my noble friend ? 	how are you ,  my friend ? 
since I came hither ,  Which I can call but now ,  I have heard strange news . 	ever since I arrived here ,  just now ,  I’ve been hearing strange rumors . 
how dost ,  my lord ? 	how are you ,  my lord ? 
o madam ,  my old heart is cracked ,  it’s cracked . 	oh ,  madam ,  my old heart is broken ,  broken . 
o ,  lady ,  lady ,  shame would have it hid . 	oh ,  my lady ,  I’m ashamed to admit it . 
was he not companion with the riotous knights That tend upon my father ? 	wasn’t he friends with all those brawling knights who serve my father ? 
I know not ,  madam . 	I don’t know ,  madam . 
tis too bad ,  too bad . 	oh ,  it’s too terrible . 
yes ,  madam ,  he was of that consort . 	to answer your question ,  ma'am—yes ,  he was friendly with those knights . 
no marvel then ,  though he were ill affected . 	then it’s no surprise they had a bad influence on him . 
tis they have put him on the old man’s death ,  To have th' expense and spoil of his revenues . 	they probably put him up to killing old man Gloucester to get his money . 
I have this present evening from my sister Been well informed of them—and with such cautions That if they come to sojourn at my house I’ll not be there . 	tonight I received a letter from my sister telling me all about them—and warning me not be at home in case they come to stay at my house . 
nor I ,  assure thee ,  Regan . — Edmund ,  I hear that you have shown your father A childlike office . 	and I won’t be there either . —Edmund ,  I’m told you’ve acted like a true son to your father . 
It was my duty ,  sir . 	I just did my duty ,  sir . 
he did bewray his practice ,  and received This hurt you see striving to apprehend him . 	he exposed Edgar’s murderous plot ,  and was wounded ,  as you see there ,  when trying to apprehend him . 
Is he pursued ? 	are your men searching for him ? 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
If he be taken ,  he shall never more Be feared of doing harm . 	If he’s caught ,  he’ll never make trouble for anyone again . 
natures of such deep trust we shall much need . 	I need people as trustworthy as you . 
I shall serve you ,  sir ,  Truly ,  however else . 	I’ll always be loyal to you ,  sir . 
you know not why we came to visit you— Thus out of season ,  threading dark - eyed night . 	you don’t know why we came to visit you— Yes ,  and so unexpectedly ,  at night . 
the several messengers From hence attend dispatch . 	their messengers are ready ,  waiting to deliver our response in these matters . 
our good old friend ,  Lay comforts to your bosom ,  and bestow Your needful counsel to our business ,  Which craves the instant use . 	so please ,  old friend ,  give us some good advice . 
I serve you ,  madam . 	I’m at your service ,  madam . 
your graces are right welcome . 	both of you are very welcome here . 
good dawning to thee ,  friend . 	good morning to you ,  friend . 
art of this house ? 	do you work in this house ? 
ay . 	yes ,  I do . 
where may we set our horses ? 	where should we stable our horses ? 
I' th' mire . 	In the mud . 
prithee ,  if thou lovest me ,  tell me . 	please ,  sir ,  be kind to me and tell me . 
I love thee not . 	I won’t be kind to you . 
why ,  then ,  I care not for thee . 	In that case ,  I don’t much care for you either . 
If I had thee in Lipsbury pinfold ,  I would make thee care for me . 	If I could get my hands on you ,  I’d make you care . 
why dost thou use me thus ? 	why are you talking to me like this ? 
I know thee not . 	I don’t even know you . 
fellow ,  I know thee . 	ah ,  but I know you . 
what dost thou know me for ? 	who am I then ? 
why ,  what a monstrous fellow art thou ,  thus to rail on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee ! 	what an ogre you are to slander someone you don’t know ,  and who doesn’t know you ! 
what a brazen - faced varlet art thou to deny thou knowest me ! 	what a shameless jerk you are to pretend you don’t know me ! 
Is it two days ago since I tripped up thy heels and beat thee before the king ? 	It was just two days ago that I tripped you and beat you up in front of the king . 
draw ,  you rogue ,  for though it be night yet the moon shines . 	draw your sword ,  scoundrel . 
I’ll make a sop o' th' moonshine of you . 	I’ll make ground beef out of you . 
away ! 	get away from me ! 
I have nothing to do with thee . 	I’ve got nothing to do with you . 
draw ,  you rascal . 	draw your sword ,  you jerk ! 
you come with letters against the king and take Vanity the puppet’s part against the royalty of her father . 	you come here with letters against the king ,  and you take his conceited daughter’s side against his royal highness . 
draw ,  you rogue ,  or I’ll so carbonado your shanks . 	draw your sword ,  scoundrel ,  or I’ll slice your thighs like flank steak . 
draw ,  you rascal ! 	draw your sword ! 
come your ways . 	come on ! 
help ,  ho ! 	help ! 
murder ! 	murderer ! 
help ! 	help ! 
stand ,  you neat slave ,  strike ! 	stand and fight ,  you overdressed servant ,  fight ! 
help ,  ho ! 	help ! 
murder ,  murder ! 	murder ,  murder ! 
macbeth . 	macbeth . 
then stand with us . 	then stay with us . 
the west yet glimmers with some streaks of day . 	there’s still a bit of daylight in the sky . 
now spurs the lated traveler apace To gain the timely inn ,  and near approaches The subject of our watch . 	now all the late travellers are hurrying to reach their inns . 
then ’tis he: the rest That are within the note of expectation Already are i' th' court . 	the rest of the king’s guests are already inside . 
tis he . 	that’s him . 
stand to ’t . 	prepare yourselves . 
It will be rain tonight . 	It will rain tonight . 
let it come down . 	then let the rain come down . 
o treachery ! 	oh ,  this is treachery ! 
fly ,  good Fleance ,  fly ,  fly ,  fly ! 	get out of here ,  good Fleance ,  run ,  run ,  run ! 
thou may ’st revenge —O slave ! 	someday you can get revenge . —Oh ,  you bastard ! 
who did strike out the light ? 	who put out the light ? 
was ’t not the way ? 	wasn’t that the best thing to do ? 
there’s but one down . 	there’s only one body here . 
the son is fled . 	the son ran away . 
we have lost best half of our affair . 	we failed in half of our mission . 
well ,  let’s away and say how much is done . 	well ,  let’s get out of here and tell Macbeth what we did accomplish . 
at first And last ,  the hearty welcome . 	from the highest to the lowest of you ,  I bid you a hearty welcome . 
thanks to your majesty . 	thanks to your majesty . 
ourself will mingle with society And play the humble host . 	I will walk around and mingle with all of you ,  playing the humble host . 
pronounce it for me ,  sir ,  to all our friends ,  For my heart speaks they are welcome . 	say welcome to all of our friends for me ,  sir ,  for in my heart they are all welcome . 
see ,  they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks . 	and they respond to you with their hearts as well . 
both sides are even . 	the table is full on both sides . 
here I’ll sit i' th' midst . 	I will sit here in the middle . 
be large in mirth . 	be free and happy . 
anon we’ll drink a measure The table round . 	soon we will toast around the table . 
tis Banquo’s then . 	then it must be Banquo’s . 
my lord ,  his throat is cut . 	my lord ,  his throat is cut . 
that I did for him . 	I did that to him . 
thou art the best o' th' cutthroats: Yet he’s good that did the like for Fleance . 	you are the best of the cutthroats . 
If thou didst it ,  thou art the nonpareil . 	If you cut both their throats ,  then you are the absolute best . 
most royal sir ,  Fleance is ’scaped . 	most royal sir ,  Fleance has escaped . 
then comes my fit again . 	now I’m scared again . 
I had else been perfect ,  Whole as the marble ,  founded as the rock ,  As broad and general as the casing air . 	otherwise I would have been perfect ,  as solid as a piece of marble ,  as firm as a rock ,  as free as the air itself . 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
safe in a ditch he bides ,  With twenty trenchèd gashes on his head ,  The least a death to nature . 	he’s lying dead in a ditch ,  with twenty deep gashes in his head ,  any one of which would have been enough to kill him . 
thanks for that . 	thanks for that . 
there the grown serpent lies . 	the adult snake lies in the ditch . 
the worm that’s fled Hath nature that in time will venom breed; No teeth for th' present . 	the young snake that escaped will in time become poisonous and threatening ,  but for now he has no fangs . 
get thee gone . 	get out of here . 
tomorrow We’ll hear ourselves again . 	I’ll talk to you again tomorrow . 
my royal lord ,  You do not give the cheer . 	my royal lord ,  you’re not entertaining the guests . 
to feed were best at home; From thence ,  the sauce to meat is ceremony; Meeting were bare without it . 	when you just want to eat ,  it’s better to do that at home . 
where hast thou been ,  sister ? 	where have you been ,  sister ? 
killing swine . 	killing pigs . 
sister ,  where thou ? 	and you ,  sister ? 
a sailor’s wife had chestnuts in her lap ,  And munched ,  and munched ,  and munched . 	a sailor’s wife had chestnuts in her lap and munched away at them . 
give me ,  ”       quoth I . 	give me one ,  ”  I said . 
aroint thee ,  witch !  ”  the rump - fed runnion cries . 	get away from me ,  witch !  ”  the fat woman cried . 
thou 'rt kind . 	how nice of you ! 
and I another . 	and I will give you some more . 
I’ll drain him dry as hay . 	I’ll drain the life out of him . 
sleep shall neither night nor day Hang upon his penthouse lid . 	he won’t catch a wink of sleep ,  either at night or during the day . 
he shall live a man forbid . 	he will live as a cursed man . 
weary sev'nnights nine times nine Shall he dwindle ,  peak and pine . 	for eighty - one weeks he will waste away in agony . 
sweet remembrancer ! 	It’s nice of you to remind me . 
may ’t please your highness sit . 	why don’t you have a seat ,  your highness ? 
his absence ,  sir ,  Lays blame upon his promise . 	his absence means he’s broken his promise ,  sir . 
please ’t your highness To grace us with your royal company ? 	If it pleases you ,  your highness ,  why don’t you sit with us and grace us with your royal company ? 
the table’s full . 	the table’s full . 
here is a place reserved ,  sir . 	here’s an empty seat ,  sir . 
where ? 	where ? 
what ,  my good lord ? 	what ,  my good lord ? 
gentlemen ,  rise . 	gentlemen ,  stand up . 
his highness is not well . 	his highness is not well . 
sit ,  worthy friends . 	sit down ,  worthy friends . 
my lord is often thus And hath been from his youth . 	my husband is often like this ,  and he has been since he was a child . 
pray you ,  keep seat . 	please stay seated . 
If much you note him ,  You shall offend him and extend his passion . 	If you pay too much attention to him you’ll make him angry ,  and that will make his convulsions go on longer . 
feed and regard him not . 	eat your dinner and pay no attention to him . 
ay ,  and a bold one ,  that dare look on that Which might appall the devil . 	yes ,  and a brave one ,  who dares to look at something that would frighten the devil . 
o proper stuff ! 	oh ,  that’s nonsense ! 
this is the very painting of your fear . 	this is just another one of the hallucinations you always get when you’re afraid . 
this is the air - drawn dagger which you said Led you to Duncan . 	these outbursts of yours don’t even look like real fear . 
oh ,  these flaws and starts ,  Impostors to true fear ,  would well become A woman’s story at a winter’s fire ,  Authorized by her grandam . 	they’re more like how you would act if you were a woman telling a scary story by the fireside in front of her grandmother . 
shame itself ! 	shame on you ! 
why do you make such faces ? 	why are you making these faces ? 
when all’s done ,  You look but on a stool . 	when the vision passes ,  you’ll see that you’re just looking at a stool . 
prithee ,  see there ! 	please ,  just look over there . 
behold ! 	look ! 
look ! 	look ! 
If I stand here ,  I saw him . 	as sure as I’m standing here ,  I saw him . 
fie ,  for shame ! 	nonsense ! 
the time has been That ,  when the brains were out ,  the man would die ,  And there an end . 	It used to be that when you knocked a man’s brains out he would just die ,  and that would be it . 
but now they rise again With twenty mortal murders on their crowns And push us from our stools . 	but now they rise from the dead with twenty fatal head wounds and push us off our stools . 
this is more strange Than such a murder is . 	this haunting business is even stranger than murder . 
my worthy lord ,  Your noble friends do lack you . 	my worthy lord ,  your noble friends miss your company . 
our duties ,  and the pledge . 	too bad it’s spoiling our pleasure tonight . 
approach thou like the rugged Russian bear ,  The armed rhinoceros ,  or th' Hyrcan tiger; Take any shape but that ,  and my firm nerves Shall never tremble . 	come at me in the form of a rugged Russian bear ,  an armor - plated rhinoceros ,  or a tiger from Iran . 
or be alive again ,  And dare me to the desert with thy sword . 	or come back to life again and challenge me to a duel in some deserted place . 
If trembling I inhabit then ,  protest me The baby of a girl . 	If I tremble then ,  you can call me a little girl . 
hence ,  horrible shadow ! 	get out of here ,  you horrible ghost ,  you hallucination . 
unreal mockery ,  hence ! 	get out ! 
why so ,  being gone ,       Why so ,  being gone ,  I am a man again . 	I am a man again . 
pray you sit still . 	pray you sit still . 
you have displaced the mirth ,  broke the good meeting ,  With most admired disorder . 	please ,  remain seated . 
what sights ,  my lord ? 	what things ,  my lord ? 
I pray you ,  speak not . 	please ,  don’t speak to him . 
he grows worse and worse . 	he’s getting worse and worse . 
question enrages him . 	talk makes him crazy . 
at once ,  good night . 	good night . 
a kind good night to all ! 	a kind good night to all ! 
stones have been known to move ,  and trees to speak . 	gravestones have been known to move ,  and trees to speak ,  to bring guilty men to justice . 
almost at odds with morning ,  which is which . 	It’s almost morning . 
did you send to him ,  sir ? 	did you send for him ,  sir ? 
I hear it by the way; but I will send . 	I’ve heard about this indirectly ,  but I will send for him . 
there’s not a one of them but in his house I keep a servant fee’d . 	In every one of the lords' households I have a servant paid to spy for me . 
I will tomorrow— And betimes I will—to the weird sisters . 	tomorrow ,  while it’s still early ,  I will go see the witches . 
more shall they speak ,  for now I am bent to know ,  By the worst means ,  the worst . 	they will tell me more ,  because I’m determined to know the worst about what’s going to happen . 
for mine own good ,  All causes shall give way . 	my own safety is the only important thing now . 
strange things I have in head ,  that will to hand ,  Which must be acted ere they may be scanned . 	I have to do these things before I have a chance to think about them . 
come ,  we’ll to sleep . 	yes ,  let’s go to sleep . 
my strange and self - abuse Is the initiate fear that wants hard use . 	my strange self - delusions just come from inexperience . 
we are yet but young in deed . 	we’re still just beginners when it comes to crime . 
why ,  how now ,  Hecate ! 	what’s wrong ,  Hecate ? 
you look angerly . 	you look angry . 
have I not reason ,  beldams as you are ? 	don’t I have a reason to be angry ,  you disobedient hags ? 
but make amends now . 	but you can make it up to me . 
get you gone ,  And at the pit of Acheron Meet me i' th' morning . 	go away now and in the morning meet me in the pit by the river in hell . 
thither he Will come to know his destiny . 	macbeth will go there to learn his destiny . 
your vessels and your spells provide ,  Your charms and everything beside . 	you bring your cauldrons ,  your spells ,  your charms ,  and everything else . 
I am for the air . 	I’m about to fly away . 
this night I’ll spend Unto a dismal and a fatal end . 	I’ll spend tonight working to make something horrible happen . 
great business must be wrought ere noon . 	I have a lot to do before noon . 
upon the corner of the moon There hangs a vap'rous drop profound . 	an important droplet is hanging from the corner of the moon . 
I’ll catch it ere it come to ground . 	I’ll catch it before it falls to the ground . 
and that distilled by magic sleights Shall raise such artificial sprites As by the strength of their illusion Shall draw him on to his confusion . 	when I work it over with magic spells ,  the drop will produce magical spirits that will trick Macbeth with illusions . 
he shall spurn fate ,  scorn death ,  and bear His hopes 'bove wisdom ,  grace ,  and fear . 	he will be fooled into thinking he is greater than fate ,  he will mock death ,  and he will think he is above wisdom ,  grace ,  and fear . 
and you all know ,  security Is mortals' chiefest enemy . 	as you all know ,  overconfidence is man’s greatest enemy . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
I am called . 	I’m being called . 
my little spirit ,  see ,  Sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me . 	look ,  my little spirit is sitting in a foggy cloud waiting for me . 
only I say Things have been strangely borne . 	all I’m saying is that strange things have been going on . 
men must not walk too late . 	clearly ,  men should not go out walking too late ! 
who cannot want the thought how monstrous It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain To kill their gracious father ? 	and who can help thinking how monstrous it was for Malcolm and Donalbain to kill their gracious father ? 
all which we pine for now . 	those are the things we pine for now . 
and this report Hath so exasperated the king that he Prepares for some attempt of war . 	macbeth has heard this news and he is so angry that he’s preparing for war . 
sent he to Macduff ? 	did he tell Macduff to return to Scotland ? 
I’ll send my prayers with him . 	I’ll send my prayers with him . 
though his bark cannot be lost ,  Yet it shall be tempest - tossed . 	although I can’t make his ship disappear ,  I can still make his journey miserable . 
look what I have . 	look what I have here . 
show me ,  show me . 	show me ,  show me . 
a drum ,  a drum ! 	a drum ,  a drum ! 
macbeth doth come . 	macbeth has come . 
thrice the brinded cat hath mewed . 	the tawny cat has meowed three times . 
harpier cries ,   “ 'Tis time ,  ’tis time .  ”  Round about the cauldron go ,  In the poisoned entrails throw . 	my spirit friend ,  Harpier ,  is yelling ,   “ It’s time ,  it’s time !  ”  Dance around the cauldron and throw in the poisoned entrails . 
double ,  double toil and trouble ,  Fire burn ,  and cauldron bubble . 	double ,  double toil and trouble ,  Fire burn ,  and cauldron bubble . 
double ,  double toil and trouble ,  Fire burn and cauldron bubble . 	double ,  double toil and trouble ,  Fire burn and cauldron bubble . 
double ,  double toil and trouble ,  Fire burn and cauldron bubble . 	double ,  double toil and trouble ,  Fire burn and cauldron bubble . 
cool it with a baboon’s blood ,  Then the charm is firm and good . 	we’ll cool the mixture with baboon blood . 
oh well done ! 	well done ! 
I commend your pains ,  And every one shall share i' th' gains . 	I admire your efforts ,  and all of you will share the rewards . 
and now about the cauldron sing ,  Like elves and fairies in a ring ,  Enchanting all that you put in . 	now come sing around the cauldron like a ring of elves and fairies ,  enchanting everything you put in . 
by the pricking of my thumbs ,  Something wicked this way comes . 	I can tell that something wicked is coming by the tingling in my thumbs . 
open ,  locks ,  Whoever knocks . 	doors ,  open up for whoever is knocking ! 
how now ,  you secret ,  black ,  and midnight hags ? 	what’s going on here ,  you secret ,  evil ,  midnight hags ? 
what is ’t you do ? 	what are you doing ? 
a deed without a name . 	something there isn’t a word for . 
I conjure you by that which you profess— Howe'er you come to know it—answer me . 	tell me what I want to know . 
speak . 	speak . 
demand . 	demand . 
we’ll answer . 	we’ll answer . 
say ,  if th' hadst rather hear it from our mouths ,  Or from our masters' . 	would you rather hear these things from our mouths or from our master’s ? 
call 'em . 	call them . 
let me see 'em . 	let me see them . 
pour in sow’s blood ,  that hath eaten Her nine farrow; grease that’s sweaten From the murderer’s gibbet throw Into the flame . 	pour in the blood of a sow who has eaten her nine offspring . 
tell me ,  thou unknown power—      He knows thy thought . 	tell me ,  you unknown power— He can read your thoughts . 
hear his speech but say thou nought . 	listen ,  but don’t speak . 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
beware Macduff . 	beware Macduff . 
beware the thane of Fife . 	beware the thane of Fife . 
dismiss me . 	let me go . 
enough . 	enough . 
whate'er thou art ,  for thy good caution ,  thanks . 	whatever you are ,  thanks for your advice . 
thou hast harped my fear aright . 	you have guessed exactly what I feared . 
but one word more— He will not be commanded . 	but one word more— He will not be commanded by you . 
here’s another More potent than the first . 	here’s another ,  stronger than the first . 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
macbeth ! — Had I three ears ,  I’d hear thee . 	If I had three ears I’d listen with all three . 
be bloody ,  bold ,  and resolute . 	be violent ,  bold ,  and firm . 
laugh to scorn The power of man ,  for none of woman born Shall harm Macbeth . 	laugh at the power of other men ,  because nobody born from a woman will ever harm Macbeth . 
but yet I’ll make assurance double sure ,  And take a bond of fate . 	but even so ,  I’ll make doubly sure . 
thou shalt not live ,  That I may tell pale - hearted fear it lies ,  And sleep in spite of thunder . 	that way I can conquer my own fear and sleep easy at night . 
what is this That rises like the issue of a king ,  And wears upon his baby - brow the round And top of sovereignty ? 	what is this spirit that looks like the son of a king and wears a crown on his young head ? 
listen but speak not to ’t . 	listen but don’t speak to it . 
be lion - mettled ,  proud ,  and take no care Who chafes ,  who frets ,  or where conspirers are . 	be brave like the lion and proud . 
macbeth shall never vanquished be until Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill Shall come against him . 	macbeth will never be defeated until Birnam Wood marches to fight you at Dunsinane Hill . 
that will never be . 	that will never happen . 
who can impress the forest ,  bid the tree Unfix his earthbound root ? 	who can command the forest and make the trees pull their roots out of the earth ? 
sweet bodements ! 	these were sweet omens ! 
good ! 	good ! 
rebellious dead ,  rise never till the wood Of Birnam rise ,  and our high - placed Macbeth Shall live the lease of nature ,  pay his breath To time and mortal custom . 	my murders will never come back to threaten me until the forest of Birnam gets up and moves ,  and I will be king for my entire natural life . 
yet my heart Throbs to know one thing . 	but my heart is still throbbing to know one thing . 
tell me ,  if your art Can tell so much: shall Banquo’s issue ever Reign in this kingdom ? 	tell me ,  if your dark powers can see this far: will Banquo’s sons ever reign in this kingdom ? 
seek to know no more . 	don’t try to find out more . 
I will be satisfied . 	I demand to be satisfied . 
deny me this ,  And an eternal curse fall on you ! 	If you refuse ,  let an eternal curse fall on you . 
let me know . 	let me know . 
why sinks that cauldron ? 	why is that cauldron sinking ? 
and what noise is this ? 	and what is that music ? 
show . 	show . 
show . 	show . 
show . 	show . 
show his eyes and grieve his heart . 	show him and make him grieve . 
come like shadows; so depart ! 	come like shadows and depart in the same way ! 
thou art too like the spirit of Banquo . 	you look too much like the ghost of Banquo . 
I’ll see no more . 	go away ! 
horrible sight ! 	what ? 
what ,  is this so ? 	Is this true ? 
come ,  sisters ,  cheer we up his sprites ,  And show the best of our delights . 	come ,  sisters ,  let’s cheer him up and show him our talents . 
where are they ? 	where are they ? 
gone ? 	gone ? 
let this pernicious hour Stand aye accursèd in the calendar ! 	let this evil hour be marked forever in the calendar as cursed . 
what’s your grace’s will ? 	what does your grace want ? 
saw you the weird sisters ? 	did you see the weird sisters ? 
no ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
came they not by you ? 	didn’t they pass by you ? 
no ,  indeed ,  my lord . 	no ,  indeed ,  my lord . 
I did hear The galloping of horse . 	I heard the galloping of horses . 
who was ’t came by ? 	who was it that came here ? 
tis two or three ,  my lord ,  that bring you word Macduff is fled to England . 	two or three men ,  my lord ,  who brought the message that Macduff has fled to England . 
fled to England ? 	fled to England ? 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
time ,  thou anticipat’st my dread exploits . 	time ,  you thwart my dreadful plans . 
no boasting like a fool . 	no more foolish talk . 
this deed I’ll do before this purpose cool . 	I will do this deed before I lose my sense of purpose . 
but no more sights ! —Where are these gentlemen ? 	but no more spooky visions ! —Where are the messengers ? 
come ,  bring me where they are . 	come ,  bring me to them . 
what had he done to make him fly the land ? 	what did he do that made him flee this land ? 
you must have patience ,  madam . 	you have to be patient ,  madam . 
he had none . 	he had no patience . 
his flight was madness . 	he was crazy to run away . 
when our actions do not ,  Our fears do make us traitors . 	even if you’re not a traitor ,  you’re going to look like one if you run away . 
you know not Whether it was his wisdom or his fear . 	you don’t know whether it was wisdom or fear that made him flee . 
wisdom ! 	how could it be wisdom ! 
to leave his wife ,  to leave his babes ,  His mansion and his titles in a place From whence himself does fly ? 	to leave his wife ,  his children ,  his house ,  and his titles in a place so unsafe that he himself flees it ! 
for the poor wren ,  The most diminutive of birds ,  will fight ,  Her young ones in her nest ,  against the owl . 	even the fragile wren ,  the smallest of birds ,  will fight against the owl when it threatens her young ones in the nest . 
all is the fear and nothing is the love ,  As little is the wisdom ,  where the flight So runs against all reason . 	his running away has everything to do with fear and nothing to do with love . 
my dearest coz ,  I pray you school yourself . 	my dearest relative ,  I’m begging you ,  pull yourself together . 
but for your husband ,  He is noble ,  wise ,  judicious ,  and best knows The fits o' th' season . 	as for your husband ,  he is noble ,  wise ,  and judicious ,  and he understands what the times require . 
I take my leave of you . 	I’ll say good - bye now . 
shall not be long but I’ll be here again . 	It won’t be long before I’m back . 
things at the worst will cease ,  or else climb upward To what they were before . —My pretty cousin ,  Blessing upon you . 	when things are at their worst they have to stop ,  or else improve to the way things were before . 
fathered he is ,  and yet he’s fatherless . 	he has a father ,  and yet he is fatherless . 
I am so much a fool ,  should I stay longer It would be my disgrace and your discomfort . 	If I stay longer ,  I’ll embarrass you and disgrace myself by crying . 
I take my leave at once . 	I’m leaving now . 
sirrah ,  your father’s dead . 	young man ,  your father’s dead . 
and what will you do now ? 	what are you going to do now ? 
how will you live ? 	how are you going to live ? 
as birds do ,  Mother . 	what ? 
what ,  with worms and flies ? 	are you going to start eating worms and flies ? 
with what I get ,  I mean ,  and so do they . 	I mean I will live on whatever I get ,  like birds do . 
poor bird ! 	you’d be a pitiful bird . 
thou ’dst never fear the net nor lime ,  The pitfall nor the gin . 	you wouldn’t know enough to be afraid of traps . 
my father is not dead ,  for all your saying . 	no matter what you say ,  my father is not dead . 
yes ,  he is dead . 	yes ,  he is dead . 
how wilt thou do for a father ? 	what are you going to do for a father ? 
nay ,  how will you do for a husband ? 	maybe you should ask ,  what will you do for a husband ? 
why ,  I can buy me twenty at any market . 	oh ,  I can buy twenty husbands at any market . 
speak ,  if you can: what are you ? 	speak ,  if you can . 
all hail ,  Macbeth ! 	all hail ,  Macbeth ! 
hail to thee ,  thane of Glamis ! 	hail to you ,  thane of Glamis ! 
all hail ,  Macbeth ! 	all hail ,  Macbeth ! 
hail ! 	hail ! 
hail ! 	hail ! 
hail ! 	hail ! 
lesser than Macbeth and greater . 	you are lesser than Macbeth but also greater . 
not so happy ,  yet much happier . 	you are not as happy as Macbeth ,  yet much happier . 
thou shalt get kings ,  though thou be none . 	your descendants will be kings ,  even though you will not be one . 
so all hail ,  Macbeth and Banquo ! 	so all hail ,  Macbeth and Banquo ! 
then you’ll buy 'em to sell again . 	If so ,  you’d be buying them to sell again . 
thou speak’st with all thy wit; and yet ,  i' faith ,  With wit enough for thee . 	you talk like a child ,  but you’re very smart anyway . 
was my father a traitor ,  Mother ? 	was my father a traitor ,  Mother ? 
ay ,  that he was . 	yes ,  he was . 
what is a traitor ? 	what is a traitor ? 
why ,  one that swears and lies . 	someone who makes a promise and breaks it . 
and be all traitors that do so ? 	and is everyone who swears and lies a traitor ? 
every one that does so is a traitor and must be hanged . 	everyone who does so is a traitor and should be hanged . 
and must they all be hanged that swear and lie ? 	and should everyone who makes promises and breaks them be hanged ? 
every one . 	everyone . 
who must hang them ? 	who should hang them ? 
why ,  the honest men . 	the honest men . 
then the liars and swearers are fools ,  for there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them . 	then the liars are fools ,  for there are enough liars in the world to beat up the honest men and hang them . 
If he were dead ,  you’d weep for him . 	If he were dead ,  you’d be weeping for him . 
If you would not ,  it were a good sign that I should quickly have a new father . 	If you aren’t weeping ,  it’s a good sign that I’ll soon have a new father . 
poor prattler ,  how thou talk’st ! 	silly babbler ,  how you talk ! 
bless you ,  fair dame ! 	bless you ,  fair lady ! 
I am not to you known ,  Though in your state of honor I am perfect . 	you don’t know me ,  but I know you’re an important person . 
I doubt some danger does approach you nearly . 	I’m afraid something dangerous is coming toward you . 
If you will take a homely man’s advice ,  Be not found here . 	If you’ll take a simple man’s advice ,  don’t be here when it arrives . 
hence with your little ones . 	go away and take your children . 
to fright you thus methinks I am too savage; To do worse to you were fell cruelty ,  Which is too nigh your person . 	I feel bad for scaring you like this ,  but it would be much worse for me to let you come to harm . 
heaven preserve you ! 	and harm is getting close ! 
I dare abide no longer . 	heaven keep you safe ! 
whither should I fly ? 	where should I go ? 
I have done no harm . 	I haven’t done anything wrong . 
but I remember now I am in this earthly world ,  where to do harm Is often laudable ,  to do good sometime Accounted dangerous folly . 	but I have to remember that I’m here on Earth ,  where doing evil is often praised ,  and doing good is sometimes a stupid and dangerous mistake . 
why then ,  alas ,  Do I put up that womanly defense ,  To say I have done no harm ? 	so then why should I offer this womanish defense that I’m innocent ? 
what are these faces ? 	who are these men ? 
where is your husband ? 	where is your husband ? 
I hope ,  in no place so unsanctified Where such as thou mayst find him . 	I hope he’s not anywhere so disreputable that thugs like you can find him . 
he’s a traitor . 	he’s a traitor . 
thou liest ,  thou shag - haired villain ! 	you’re lying ,  you shaggy - haired villain ! 
young fry of treachery ! 	what’s that ,  you runt ? 
he has killed me ,  mother . 	he has killed me ,  Mother . 
run away ,  I pray you ! 	run away ,  I beg you ! 
let us seek out some desolate shade and there Weep our sad bosoms empty . 	let’s seek out some shady place where we can sit down alone and cry our hearts out . 
let us rather Hold fast the mortal sword and ,  like good men ,  Bestride our downfall'n birthdom . 	Instead of crying ,  let’s keep hold of our swords and defend our fallen homeland like honorable men . 
each new morn New widows howl ,  new orphans cry ,  new sorrows Strike heaven on the face ,  that it resounds As if it felt with Scotland and yelled out Like syllable of dolor . 	each day new widows howl ,  new orphans cry ,  and new sorrows slap heaven in the face ,  until it sounds like heaven itself feels Scotland’s anguish and screams in pain . 
what you have spoke ,  it may be so perchance . 	what you just said may perhaps be true . 
this tyrant ,  whose sole name blisters our tongues ,  Was once thought honest . 	this tyrant ,  whose mere name is so awful it hurts us to say it ,  was once considered an honest man . 
you have loved him well . 	you were one of his favorites . 
he hath not touched you yet . 	he hasn’t done anything to harm you yet . 
I am young ,  but something You may deserve of him through me ,  and wisdom To offer up a weak ,  poor ,  innocent lamb T' appease an angry god . 	It would be smart to offer someone poor and innocent like me as a sacrificial lamb to satisfy an angry god like Macbeth . 
I am not treacherous . 	I am not treacherous . 
but Macbeth is . 	but Macbeth is . 
a good and virtuous nature may recoil In an imperial charge . 	even someone with a good and virtuous nature might give way to a royal command . 
but I shall crave your pardon . 	but I beg your pardon . 
that which you are ,  my thoughts cannot transpose . 	my fears can’t actually make you evil . 
angels are bright still ,  though the brightest fell . 	angels are still bright even though Lucifer ,  the brightest angel ,  fell from heaven . 
though all things foul would wear the brows of grace ,  Yet grace must still look so . 	even though everything evil wants to look good ,  good still has to look good too . 
why in that rawness left you wife and child ,  Those precious motives ,  those strong knots of love ,  Without leave - taking ? 	why did you leave your wife and child vulnerable—the most precious things in your life ,  those strong bonds of love ? 
I pray you ,  Let not my jealousies be your dishonors ,  But mine own safeties . 	but I beg you ,  don’t interpret my suspicions as slander against you . 
you may be rightly just ,  Whatever I shall think . 	you may really be honest ,  no matter what I think . 
bleed ,  bleed ,  poor country ! 	bleed ,  bleed ,  poor country ! 
I would not be the villain that thou think’st For the whole space that’s in the tyrant’s grasp ,  And the rich East to boot . 	I wouldn’t be the villain you think I am even if I were offered all of Macbeth’s kingdom and the riches of the East too . 
be not offended . 	don’t be offended . 
I speak not as in absolute fear of you . 	I don’t completely distrust you . 
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke . 	I do think Scotland is sinking under Macbeth’s oppression . 
It weeps ,  it bleeds ,  and each new day a gash Is added to her wounds . 	our country weeps ,  it bleeds ,  and each day a fresh cut is added to her wounds . 
I think withal There would be hands uplifted in my right; And here from gracious England have I offer Of goodly thousands . 	the English have promised me thousands of troops . 
what should he be ? 	who are you talking about ? 
not in the legions Of horrid hell can come a devil more damned In evils to top Macbeth . 	even in hell you couldn’t find a devil worse than Macbeth . 
I grant him bloody ,  Luxurious ,  avaricious ,  false ,  deceitful ,  Sudden ,  malicious ,  smacking of every sin That has a name . 	I admit that he’s murderous ,  lecherous ,  greedy ,  lying ,  deceitful ,  violent ,  malicious ,  and guilty of every sin that has a name . 
but there’s no bottom ,  none ,  In my voluptuousness . 	but there is no end ,  absolutely none ,  to my sexual desires . 
your wives ,  your daughters ,  Your matrons ,  and your maids could not fill up The cistern of my lust ,  and my desire All continent impediments would o'erbear That did oppose my will . 	your wives ,  your daughters ,  your old women ,  and your young maids together could not satisfy my lust . 
better Macbeth Than such an one to reign . 	It would be better for Macbeth to rule than someone like me . 
boundless intemperance In nature is a tyranny . 	endless greed and lust in a man’s nature is a kind of tyranny . 
It hath been The untimely emptying of the happy throne And fall of many kings . 	It has caused the downfall of many kings . 
but fear not yet To take upon you what is yours . 	but don’t be afraid to take the crown that belongs to you . 
we have willing dames enough . 	there are more than enough willing women around . 
this avarice Sticks deeper ,  grows with more pernicious root Than summer - seeming lust ,  and it hath been The sword of our slain kings . 	greed has been the downfall of many kings . 
but I have none . 	but I don’t have any good sides . 
nay ,  had I power ,  I should Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell ,  Uproar the universal peace ,  confound All unity on earth . 	no ,  if I had power I would take world peace and throw it down to hell . 
o Scotland ,  Scotland ! 	oh Scotland ,  Scotland ! 
If such a one be fit to govern ,  speak . 	If someone like me is fit to be king ,  let me know . 
fare thee well ! 	I’m still a virgin . 
whither indeed ,  before thy here - approach ,  Old Siward ,  with ten thousand warlike men ,  Already at a point ,  was setting forth . 	Indeed ,  before you arrived here ,  old Siward ,  with ten thousand soldiers already prepared for battle ,  was making his way here . 
why are you silent ? 	why are you silent ? 
such welcome and unwelcome things at once 'Tis hard to reconcile . 	It’s hard to make sense of such different stories . 
well ,  more anon . —Comes the king forth ,  I pray you ? 	well ,  we’ll speak more soon . 
ay ,  sir; there are a crew of wretched souls That stay his cure . 	yes ,  sir . 
their malady convinces The great assay of art ,  but at his touch— Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand— They presently amend . 	their illness confounds the most advanced techniques of modern medicine ,  but when he touches them ,  they heal immediately because of the power granted to him by heaven . 
I thank you ,  doctor . 	thank you ,  doctor . 
what’s the disease he means ? 	what disease is he talking about ? 
tis called the evil . 	It’s called the evil . 
a most miraculous work in this good king ,  Which often since my here - remain in England I have seen him do . 	edward’s healing touch is a miracle that I have seen him perform many times during my stay in England . 
with this strange virtue ,  He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy ,  And sundry blessings hang about his throne ,  That speak him full of grace . 	along with this strange power ,  he also has the gift of prophecy and various other abilities . 
see ,  who comes here ? 	who’s that coming over here ? 
my countryman ,  but yet I know him not . 	by his dress I can tell he’s my countryman ,  but I don’t recognize him . 
my ever - gentle cousin ,  welcome hither . 	my noble kinsman ,  welcome . 
sir ,  amen . 	hello ,  sir . 
stands Scotland where it did ? 	Is Scotland the same as when I left it ? 
alas ,  poor country ! 	alas ,  our poor country ! 
almost afraid to know itself . 	It’s too frightened to look at itself . 
oh ,  relation Too nice and yet too true ! 	oh ,  your report is too poetic ,  but it sounds so true ! 
banquo and Macbeth ,  all hail ! 	banquo and Macbeth ,  all hail ! 
stay ,  you imperfect speakers ,  tell me more . 	stay and tell me more . 
say from whence You owe this strange intelligence ,  or why Upon this blasted heath you stop our way With such prophetic greeting . 	tell me where you learned these strange things ,  and why you stop us at this desolate place with this prophetic greeting ? 
speak ,  I charge you . 	speak ,  I command you . 
the earth hath bubbles ,  as the water has ,  And these are of them . 	the earth has bubbles ,  just like the water ,  and these creatures must have come from a bubble in the earth . 
whither are they vanished ? 	where did they disappear to ? 
would they had stayed . 	I wish they had stayed ! 
were such things here as we do speak about ? 	were these things we’re talking about really here ? 
or have we eaten on the insane root That takes the reason prisoner ? 	or are we both on drugs ? 
your children shall be kings . 	your children will be kings . 
you shall be king . 	you will be the king . 
and thane of Cawdor too: went it not so ? 	Isn’t that what they said ? 
to the selfsame tune and words . 	that’s exactly what they said . 
who’s here ? 	who’s this ? 
how does my wife ? 	how is my wife ? 
why ,  well . 	she’s well . 
and all my children ? 	and all my children ? 
well too . 	they’re well too . 
how goes ’t ? 	what’s the news ? 
now is the time of help . 	now is the time when we need your help . 
gracious England hath Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men; An older and a better soldier none That Christendom gives out . 	gracious King Edward has sent us noble Siward and ten thousand soldiers . 
would I could answer This comfort with the like . 	I wish I could repay this happy news with good news of my own . 
what concern they ? 	what is this news about ? 
If it be mine ,  Keep it not from me . 	If it’s for me ,  don’t keep it from me . 
quickly let me have it . 	let me have it now . 
I guess at it . 	I think I can guess what you’re about to say . 
your castle is surprised ,  your wife and babes Savagely slaughtered . 	your wife and children were savagely slaughtered . 
merciful heaven ! 	merciful heaven ! 
my children too ? 	they killed my children too ? 
wife ,  children ,  servants ,  all that could be found . 	they killed your wife ,  your children ,  your servants ,  anyone they could find . 
and I must be from thence ! 	and I had to be away ! 
my wife killed too ? 	my wife was killed too ? 
I have said . 	I said she was . 
let’s make us med'cines of our great revenge ,  To cure this deadly grief . 	take comfort . 
he has no children . 	he doesn’t have children . 
all my pretty ones ? 	all my pretty little children ? 
did you say all ? 	did you say all ? 
o hell - kite ! 	oh ,  that bird from hell ! 
all ? 	all of them ? 
what ,  all my pretty chickens and their dam At one fell swoop ? 	what ,  all my children and their mother dead in one fell swoop ? 
dispute it like a man . 	fight it like a man . 
I cannot but remember such things were That were most precious to me . 	I can’t help remembering the things that were most precious to me . 
did heaven look on ,  And would not take their part ? 	did heaven watch the slaughter and not send down any help ? 
sinful Macduff ,  They were all struck for thee ! 	sinful Macduff ,  they were killed because of you ! 
naught that I am ,  Not for their own demerits ,  but for mine ,  Fell slaughter on their souls . 	as wicked as I am ,  they were slaughtered because of me ,  not because of anything they did . 
heaven rest them now . 	may God give their souls rest . 
be this the whetstone of your sword . 	let this anger sharpen your sword . 
let grief Convert to anger . 	transform your grief into anger . 
oh ,  I could play the woman with mine eyes And braggart with my tongue ! 	I could go on weeping like a woman and bragging about how I will avenge them ! 
but ,  gentle heavens ,  Cut short all intermission . 	but gentle heavens ,  don’t keep me waiting . 
front to front Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself . 	bring me face to face with Macbeth ,  that devil of Scotland . 
within my sword’s length set him; if he ’scape ,  Heaven forgive him too . 	put him within the reach of my sword ,  and if he escapes ,  may heaven forgive him as well ! 
this tune goes manly . 	now you sound like a man . 
come ,  go we to the king . 	come on ,  let’s go see King Edward . 
our power is ready; Our lack is nothing but our leave . 	the army is ready . 
macbeth Is ripe for shaking ,  and the powers above Put on their instruments . 	macbeth is ripe for the picking . 
receive what cheer you may . 	cheer up as much as you can . 
I have two nights watched with you but can perceive no truth in your report . 	I’ve stayed up with you for two nights now ,  and I haven’t seen any evidence of what you were talking about . 
when was it she last walked ? 	when was the last time you saw her sleepwalking ? 
since his majesty went into the field ,  I have seen her rise from her bed ,  throw her nightgown upon her ,  unlock her closet ,  take forth paper ,  fold it ,  write upon ’t ,  read it ,  afterwards seal it ,  and again return to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleep . 	since Macbeth went to war ,  I have seen her rise from her bed ,  put on her nightgown ,  unlock her closet ,  take out some paper ,  fold it ,  write on it ,  read it ,  seal it up ,  and then return to bed ,  remaining asleep the entire time . 
In this slumbery agitation ,  besides her walking and other actual performances ,  what ,  at any time ,  have you heard her say ? 	when she is like this ,  besides walking and performing various activities ,  have you heard her say anything ? 
that ,  sir ,  which I will not report after her . 	she says something ,  sir ,  but I will not repeat it to you . 
neither to you nor any one ,  having no witness to confirm my speech . 	I will not confess it to you nor to anyone else ,  because there was no one else to witness her speech . 
lo you ,  here she comes . 	look ,  here she comes ! 
this is her very guise; and ,  upon my life ,  fast asleep . 	this is exactly how she always looks ,  and—I swear it—she is fast asleep . 
observe her ,  stand close . 	watch her . 
how came she by that light ? 	how did she get that candle ? 
why ,  it stood by her . 	It stands by her bedside . 
she has light by her continually . 	she always has to have a light next to her . 
tis her command . 	those are her orders . 
you see her eyes are open . 	you see ,  her eyes are open . 
ay ,  but their sense is shut . 	yes ,  but they don’t see anything . 
what is it she does now ? 	what’s she doing now ? 
look ,  how she rubs her hands . 	look how she rubs her hands . 
It is an accustomed action with her to seem thus washing her hands . 	she looks like she’s washing her hands . 
yet here’s a spot . 	there’s still a spot here . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
she speaks . 	she’s talking . 
I will set down what comes from her ,  to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly . 	I’ll write down what she says ,  so I’ll remember it better . 
do you mark that ? 	did you hear that ? 
the thane of Fife had a wife . 	the thane of Fife had a wife . 
where is she now ? —What ,  will these hands ne'er be clean ? —No more o' that ,  my lord ,  no more o' that . 	where is she now ? —What ,  will my hands never be clean ? —No more of that ,  my lord ,  no more of that . 
you have known what you should not . 	you’ve heard something you shouldn’t have . 
she has spoke what she should not ,  I am sure of that . 	she said something she shouldn’t have said ,  I’m sure of that . 
heaven knows what she has known . 	heaven knows what secrets she’s keeping . 
here’s the smell of the blood still . 	I still have the smell of blood on my hand . 
all the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand . 	all the perfumes of Arabia couldn’t make my little hand smell better . 
oh ,  Oh ,  Oh ! 	oh ,  oh ,  oh ! 
what a sigh is there ! 	what a heavy sigh ! 
the heart is sorely charged . 	her heart is carrying a heavy weight . 
I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body . 	I wouldn’t want a heart like hers even if you made me queen . 
well ,  well ,  well . 	well ,  well ,  well . 
pray God it be ,  sir . 	I hope what she’s saying is well ,  sir ! 
this disease is beyond my practice . 	this disease is beyond my medical skills . 
yet I have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds . 	but I have known people who sleepwalked and weren’t guilty of anything . 
wash your hands . 	wash your hands . 
put on your nightgown . 	put on your nightgown . 
even so ? 	Is this true ? 
to bed ,  to bed . 	to bed ,  to bed ! 
there’s knocking at the gate . 	there’s a knocking at the gate . 
will she go now to bed ? 	will she go to bed now ? 
god ,  God forgive us all ! 	yes ,  right away . 
good night ,  good doctor . 	unnatural acts will cause  Good night ,  good doctor . 
the English power is near ,  led on by Malcolm ,  His uncle Siward and the good Macduff . 	the English army is near ,  led by Malcolm ,  his uncle Siward ,  and the good Macduff . 
revenges burn in them ,  for their dear causes Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm Excite the mortified man . 	they burn for revenge . 
who knows if Donalbain be with his brother ? 	does anyone know if Donalbain is with his brother ? 
for certain ,  sir ,  he is not . 	he is definitely not there ,  sir . 
I have a file Of all the gentry . 	I have a list of all the important men . 
what does the tyrant ? 	what is the tyrant Macbeth doing ? 
great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies . 	he is fortifying his castle at Dunsinane with heavy defenses . 
but ,  for certain ,  He cannot buckle his distempered cause Within the belt of rule . 	one thing is certain: he’s out of control . 
who then shall blame His pestered senses to recoil and start ,  When all that is within him does condemn Itself for being there ? 	who can blame him for acting crazy ,  when inside he condemns himself for everything he’s done ? 
make we our march towards Birnam . 	let’s proceed on our march to Birnam . 
silenced with that ,  In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day ,  He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks ,  Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make ,  Strange images of death . 	he was also shocked to learn that on the same day you fought the rebels you also fought against the army of Norway ,  and that you weren’t the least bit afraid of death ,  even as you killed everyone around you . 
as thick as tale Can post with post ,  and every one did bear Thy praises in his kingdom’s great defense ,  And poured them down before him . 	messenger after messenger delivered news of your bravery to the king with praise for how you defended his country . 
we are sent To give thee from our royal master thanks ,  Only to herald thee into his sight ,  Not pay thee . 	the king sent us to give you his thanks and to bring you to him . 
why do you dress me In borrowed robes ? 	why are you giving me his title ? 
whether he was combined With those of Norway ,  or did line the rebel With hidden help and vantage ,  or that with both He labored in his country’s wrack ,  I know not; But treasons capital ,  confessed and proved ,  Have overthrown him . 	I don’t know whether he fought on Norway’s side ,  or if he secretly aided the rebels ,  or if he fought with both of our enemies . 
bring me no more reports . 	don’t bring me any more reports . 
till Birnam Wood remove to Dunsinane I cannot taint with fear . 	until Birnam Wood gets up and moves to Dunsinane ,  I won’t be affected by fear . 
what’s the boy Malcolm ? 	what’s the boy Malcolm ? 
was he not born of woman ? 	wasn’t he born from a woman ? 
the spirits that know All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:  “ Fear not ,  Macbeth . 	the spirits that know the future have told me this:  “ Don’t be afraid ,  Macbeth . 
no man that’s born of woman Shall e'er have power upon thee .  ”  Then fly ,  false thanes ,  And mingle with the English epicures . 	no man born from a woman will ever defeat you .  ”  So get out of here ,  disloyal thanes ,  and join the weak and decadent English ! 
the mind I sway by and the heart I bear Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear . 	my mind and courage will never falter with doubt or shake with fear . 
the devil damn thee black ,  thou cream - faced loon ! 	may the devil turn you black ,  you white - faced fool ! 
where got’st thou that goose look ? 	why do you look like a frightened goose ? 
there is ten thousand— Geese ,  villain ? 	there are ten thousand— Geese ,  you idiot ? 
soldiers ,  sir . 	soldiers ,  sir . 
go ,  prick thy face and over - red thy fear ,  Thou lily - livered boy . 	go pinch your cheeks and bring some color back into your face ,  you cowardly boy . 
what soldiers ,  patch ? 	what soldiers ,  fool ? 
death of thy soul ! 	curse you ! 
those linen cheeks of thine Are counselors to fear . 	that pale face of yours will frighten the others as well . 
what soldiers ,  whey - face ? 	what soldiers ,  milk - face ? 
the English force ,  so please you . 	the English army ,  sir . 
take thy face hence . 	get out of my sight . 
seyton ! —I am sick at heart ,  When I behold—Seyton ,  I say ! —This push Will cheer me ever ,  or disseat me now . 	seyton ! —I’m sick at heart when I see—Seyton ,  come here ! —This battle will either secure my reign forever or else topple me from the throne . 
I have lived long enough . 	I have lived long enough . 
seyton ! 	seyton ! 
what’s your gracious pleasure ? 	what do you want ? 
what news more ? 	Is there more news ? 
all is confirmed ,  my lord ,  which was reported . 	all the rumors have been confirmed . 
I’ll fight till from my bones my flesh be hacked . 	I’ll fight until they hack the flesh off my bones . 
give me my armor . 	give me my armor . 
tis not needed yet . 	you don’t need it yet . 
I’ll put it on . 	I’ll put it on anyway . 
send out more horses . 	send out more cavalry . 
give me mine armor . 	give me my armor . 
not so sick ,  my lord ,  As she is troubled with thick - coming fancies That keep her from her rest . 	she is not sick ,  my lord ,  but she is troubled with endless visions that keep her from sleeping . 
cure her of that . 	cure her of that . 
therein the patient Must minister to himself . 	for that kind of relief ,  the patient must heal herself . 
throw physic to the dogs; I’ll none of it . 	medicine is for the dogs . 
come ,  put mine armor on . 	I won’t have anything to do with it . 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
your royal preparation Makes us hear something . 	your preparation for war sounds like something . 
cousins ,  I hope the days are near at hand That chambers will be safe . 	kinsmen ,  I hope the time is coming when people will be safe in their own bedrooms . 
we doubt it nothing . 	we don’t doubt it . 
what wood is this before us ? 	what’s the name of this forest behind us ? 
the wood of Birnam . 	birnam Wood . 
let every soldier hew him down a bough And bear ’t before him . 	tell every soldier to break off a branch and hold it in front of him . 
thereby shall we shadow The numbers of our host and make discovery Err in report of us . 	that way we can conceal how many of us there are ,  and Macbeth’s spies will give him inaccurate reports . 
It shall be done . 	we’ll do it . 
we learn no other but the confident tyrant Keeps still in Dunsinane and will endure Our setting down before ’t . 	we shouldn’t make any judgments until we achieve our goal . 
hang out our banners on the outward walls . 	hang our flags on the outer walls . 
the cry is still  “ They come !  ”  Our castle’s strength Will laugh a siege to scorn . 	everyone keeps yelling ,   “ Here they come !  ”  Our castle is strong enough to laugh off their seige . 
here let them lie Till famine and the ague eat them up . 	they can sit out there until they die of hunger and disease . 
were they not forced with those that should be ours ,  We might have met them dareful ,  beard to beard ,  And beat them backward home . 	If it weren’t for the fact that so many of our soldiers revolted and joined them ,  we could have met them out in front of the castle ,  man to man ,  and beaten them back to England . 
what is that noise ? 	what’s that noise ? 
It is the cry of women ,  my good lord . 	It’s women crying ,  my good lord . 
I have almost forgot the taste of fears . 	I’ve almost forgotten what fear feels like . 
the time has been my senses would have cooled To hear a night - shriek ,  and my fell of hair Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir As life were in ’t . 	there was a time when I would have been terrified by a shriek in the night ,  and the hair on my skin would have stood up when I heard a ghost story . 
wherefore was that cry ? 	what was that cry for ? 
the queen ,  my lord ,  is dead . 	the queen is dead ,  my lord . 
she should have died hereafter . 	she would have died later anyway . 
tomorrow ,  and tomorrow ,  and tomorrow ,  Creeps in this petty pace from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time ,  And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death . 	tomorrow ,  and tomorrow ,  and tomorrow . 
out ,  out ,  brief candle ! 	out ,  out ,  brief candle . 
It is a tale Told by an idiot ,  full of sound and fury ,  Signifying nothing . 	life is a story told by an idiot ,  full of noise and emotional disturbance but devoid of meaning . 
gracious my lord ,  I should report that which I say I saw ,  But know not how to do ’t . 	my gracious lord ,  I should tell you what I saw ,  but I don’t know how to say it . 
well ,  say ,  sir . 	just say it . 
as I did stand my watch upon the hill ,  I looked toward Birnam ,  and anon methought The wood began to move . 	as I was standing watch on the hill ,  I looked toward Birnam ,  and I thought I saw the forest begin to move . 
liar and slave ! 	liar and slave ! 
let me endure your wrath ,  if ’t be not so . 	punish me if it’s not true . 
within this three mile may you see it coming; I say ,  a moving grove . 	three miles from here you can see it coming ,  a moving forest . 
If thou speak’st false ,  Upon the next tree shall thou hang alive Till famine cling thee . 	If you’re lying ,  I’ll hang you alive from the nearest tree until you die of hunger . 
If thy speech be sooth ,  I care not if thou dost for me as much . 	If what you say is true ,  you can do the same to me . 
now near enough . 	we’re close enough now . 
fare you well . 	good luck . 
do we but find the tyrant’s power tonight ,  Let us be beaten if we cannot fight . 	If we meet Macbeth’s army tonight ,  let us be beaten if we cannot fight . 
they have tied me to a stake . 	they have me tied to a stake . 
I cannot fly ,  But ,  bearlike ,  I must fight the course . 	I can’t run away . 
what’s he That was not born of woman ? 	you’ll be afraid to hear it . 
such a one Am I to fear ,  or none . 	no I won’t ,  even if you were one of the worst demons in hell . 
what is thy name ? 	my name’s Macbeth . 
thou 'lt be afraid to hear it . 	the devil himself couldn’t say a name I hate more . 
no ,  though thou call’st thyself a hotter name Than any is in hell . 	no ,  nor could the devil’s name be more frightening . 
my name’s Macbeth . 	you lie ,  you disgusting tyrant . 
the devil himself could not pronounce a title More hateful to mine ear . 	I’ll prove with my sword that I’m not scared of you . 
no ,  nor more fearful . 	you were born from a woman . 
thou liest ,  abhorrèd tyrant . 	swords don’t frighten me . 
but swords I smile at ,  weapons laugh to scorn ,  Brandished by man that’s of a woman born . 	I laugh at any weapon used by a man who was born from a woman . 
but ’tis strange . 	but this whole thing is strange . 
that way the noise is . 	the noise is coming from over there . 
tyrant ,  show thy face ! 	tyrant ,  show your face ! 
either thou ,  Macbeth ,  Or else my sword with an unbattered edge I sheathe again undeeded . 	I’ll either fight you ,  Macbeth ,  or else I’ll put down my sword unused . 
there thou shouldst be; By this great clatter ,  one of the greatest note Seems bruited . 	you must be over there . 
this way ,  my lord . 	come this way ,  my lord . 
the castle’s gently rendered . 	our noblemen are battling bravely . 
enter ,  sir ,  the castle . 	sir ,  enter the castle . 
turn ,  hellhound ,  turn ! 	turn around ,  you dog from hell ,  turn around ! 
but get thee back . 	but go away now . 
I have no words . 	I have nothing to say to you . 
my voice is in my sword . 	my sword will talk for me . 
thou bloodier villain Than terms can give thee out ! 	you are too evil for words ! 
as easy mayst thou the intrenchant air With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed . 	you might as well try to stab the air with your sword . 
let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests; I bear a charmèd life ,  which must not yield To one of woman born . 	I lead a charmed life ,  which can’t be ended by anyone born from a woman . 
I’ll not fight with thee . 	I won’t fight you . 
then yield thee ,  coward ,  And live to be the show and gaze o' th' time . 	then surrender ,  coward ,  and we’ll put you in a freakshow ,  just like they do with deformed animals . 
we’ll have thee ,  as our rarer monsters are ,  Painted on a pole ,  and underwrit ,   “ Here may you see the tyrant .  ”       I will not yield ,  To kiss the ground before young Malcolm’s feet ,  And to be baited with the rabble’s curse . 	we’ll put a picture of you on a sign ,  right above the words  “ Come see the tyrant !  ”  I’m not going to surrender and have to kiss the ground in front of Malcolm ,  or be taunted by the common people . 
though Birnam Wood be come to Dunsinane ,  And thou opposed ,  being of no woman born ,  Yet I will try the last . 	even though Birnam Wood really did come to Dunsinane ,  and I’m fighting a man not of woman born ,  I’ll fight to the end . 
before my body I throw my warlike shield . 	I’ll put up my shield and battle you . 
lay on ,  Macduff ,  And damned be him that first cries ,   “ Hold ,  enough !  ”  I would the friends we miss were safe arrived . 	come on ,  let’s go at it ,  Macduff ,  and damn the first man who cries ,  'Stop ! 
some must go off . 	enough ! 
macduff is missing ,  and your noble son . 	macduff is missing ,  and so is your noble son . 
your son ,  my lord ,  has paid a soldier’s debt . 	my lord ,  your son has paid the soldier’s price: death . 
he only lived but till he was a man ,  The which no sooner had his prowess confirmed In the unshrinking station where he fought ,  But like a man he died . 	he only lived long enough to become a man ,  and as soon as he proved that he was a man by fighting like one ,  he died . 
then he is dead ? 	so he’s dead ? 
ay ,  and brought off the field . 	yes ,  and he’s been carried off the field . 
your cause of sorrow Must not be measured by his worth ,  for then It hath no end . 	your grief should not be equal to his worth ,  because then your sorrow would never end . 
had he his hurts before ? 	were his wounds on his front side ? 
ay ,  on the front . 	yes ,  on his front . 
why then ,  God’s soldier be he ! 	well then ,  he’s God’s soldier now ! 
had I as many sons as I have hairs ,  I would not wish them to a fairer death . 	If I had as many sons as I have hairs on my head ,  I couldn’t hope that any of them would die more honorably than he did . 
and so ,  his knell is knolled . 	and that’s all there is to it . 
he’s worth more sorrow ,  And that I’ll spend for him . 	he is worth more mourning than that ,  and I will mourn for him . 
he’s worth no more . 	he is worth no more than that . 
they say he parted well and paid his score . 	they tell me he died well ,  and settled his scores . 
and so ,  God be with him ! 	with that ,  I hope God is with him ! 
here comes newer comfort . 	here comes better news . 
hail ,  king ! 	hail ,  king ! 
for so thou art . 	because that’s what you are now . 
behold where stands The usurper’s cursèd head . 	look ,  here I have Macbeth’s cursed head . 
the time is free . 	we are free from his tyranny . 
hail ,  King of Scotland ! 	hail ,  King of Scotland ! 
my thanes and kinsmen ,  Henceforth be earls ,  the first that ever Scotland In such an honor named . 	my thanes and kinsmen ,  I name you all earls ,  the first earls that Scotland has ever had . 
so ,  thanks to all at once and to each one ,  Whom we invite to see us crowned at Scone . 	so I thank you all ,  and I invite each and every one of you to come watch me be crowned king of Scotland at Scone . 
look how our partner’s rapt . 	look at Macbeth—he’s in a daze . 
worthy Macbeth ,  we stay upon your leisure . 	good Macbeth ,  we’re ready when you are . 
kind gentlemen ,  your pains Are registered where every day I turn The leaf to read them . 	kind gentlemen ,  I won’t forget the trouble you’ve taken for me whenever I think of this day . 
let us toward the king . 	let’s go to the king . 
very gladly . 	absolutely . 
till then ,  enough . 	until then ,  we’ve said enough . 
my liege ,  They are not yet come back . 	my king ,  they haven’t come back yet . 
but I have spoke With one that saw him die ,  who did report That very frankly he confessed his treasons ,  Implored your highness' pardon ,  and set forth A deep repentance . 	but I spoke with someone who saw Cawdor die ,  and he said that Cawdor openly confessed his treasons ,  begged your highness’s forgiveness ,  and repented deeply . 
nothing in his life Became him like the leaving it . 	he never did anything in his whole life that looked as good as the way he died . 
he died As one that had been studied in his death To throw away the dearest thing he owed As ’twere a careless trifle . 	he died like someone who had practiced how to toss away his most cherished possession as if it were a worthless a piece of garbage . 
there’s no art To find the mind’s construction in the face . 	there’s no way to read a man’s mind by looking at his face . 
welcome hither . 	you are welcome here . 
so humbly take my leave . 	with that ,  I’ll be off . 
my worthy Cawdor ! 	my worthy Cawdor ! 
when shall we three meet again ? 	when should the three of us meet again ? 
In thunder ,  lightning ,  or in rain ? 	will it be in thunder ,  lightning ,  or rain ? 
that will be ere the set of sun . 	that will happen before sunset . 
where the place ? 	where should we meet ? 
there to meet with Macbeth . 	we’ll meet Macbeth there . 
what thou wouldst highly ,  That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false ,  And yet wouldst wrongly win . 	when I tried desperately to question them further ,  they vanished into thin air . 
thou'ld’st have ,  great Glamis ,  That which cries ,   “ Thus thou must do ,  ”  if thou have it ,  And that which rather thou dost fear to do ,  Than wishest should be undone . 	while I stood spellbound ,  messengers from the king arrived and greeted me as the thane of Cawdor ,  which is precisely how the weird sisters had saluted me before calling me ’the future king ! 
what is your tidings ? 	what news do you bring ? 
the king comes here tonight . 	the king is coming here tonight . 
thou 'rt mad to say it . 	you must be crazy to say that ! 
one of my fellows had the speed of him ,  Who ,  almost dead for breath ,  had scarcely more Than would make up his message . 	he sent a messenger ahead of him who arrived here so out of breath that he could barely speak his message . 
give him tending . 	take good care of him . 
he brings great news . 	he brings great news . 
my dearest love ,  Duncan comes here tonight . 	my dearest love ,  Duncan is coming here tonight . 
and when goes hence ? 	and when is he leaving ? 
tomorrow ,  as he purposes . 	he plans to leave tomorrow . 
o ,  never Shall sun that morrow see ! 	that day will never come . 
your face ,  my thane ,  is as a book where men May read strange matters . 	your face betrays strange feelings ,  my lord ,  and people will be able to read it like a book . 
bear welcome in your eye ,  Your hand ,  your tongue . 	greet the king with a welcoming expression in your eyes ,  your hands ,  and your words . 
look like th' innocent flower ,  But be the serpent under ’t . 	you should look like an innocent flower ,  but be like the snake that hides underneath the flower . 
we will speak further . 	we will speak about this further . 
leave all the rest to me . 	leave all the rest to me . 
this castle hath a pleasant seat . 	this castle is in a pleasant place . 
the air Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself Unto our gentle senses . 	the air is sweet and appeals to my refined senses . 
this guest of summer ,  The temple - haunting martlet ,  does approve ,  By his loved mansionry ,  that the heaven’s breath Smells wooingly here . 	the fact that this summer bird ,  the house martin ,  builds his nests here proves how inviting the breezes are . 
no jutty ,  frieze ,  Buttress ,  nor coign of vantage ,  but this bird Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle . 	there isn’t a single protrusion in the castle walls where these birds haven’t built their hanging nests to sleep and breed . 
where they most breed and haunt ,  I have observed ,  The air is delicate . 	I’ve noticed that they always like to settle and mate where the air is the nicest . 
see ,  see ,  our honored hostess ! 	look ,  here comes our honored hostess ! 
the love that follows us sometime is our trouble ,  Which still we thank as love . 	sometimes the love my subjects bring me is inconvenient ,  but I still accept it as love . 
fair and noble hostess ,  We are your guest tonight . 	fair and noble hostess ,  we are your guests tonight . 
your servants ever Have theirs ,  themselves ,  and what is theirs in compt ,  To make their audit at your highness' pleasure ,  Still to return your own . 	we are your servants ,  your highness ,  and as always our house and everything in it is at your disposal ,  for after all ,  we keep it in your trust and we’re glad to give you back what’s yours . 
give me your hand . 	give me your hand . 
conduct me to mine host . 	bring me to my host ,  Macbeth . 
we love him highly And shall continue our graces towards him . 	I love him dearly ,  and I shall continue to favor him . 
by your leave ,  hostess . 	whenever you’re ready ,  hostess . 
If it were done when ’tis done ,  then ’twere well It were done quickly . 	If this business would really be finished when I did the deed ,  then it would be best to get it over with quickly . 
what news ? 	what news do you have ? 
he has almost supped . 	he has almost finished dinner . 
why have you left the chamber ? 	why did you leave the dining room ? 
hath he asked for me ? 	has he asked for me ? 
know you not he has ? 	don’t you know he has ? 
we will proceed no further in this business . 	we can’t go on with this plan . 
he hath honored me of late ,  and I have bought Golden opinions from all sorts of people ,  Which would be worn now in their newest gloss ,  Not cast aside so soon . 	the king has just honored me ,  and I have earned the good opinion of all sorts of people . 
was the hope drunk Wherein you dressed yourself ? 	were you drunk when you seemed so hopeful before ? 
from this time Such I account thy love . 	from now on this is what I’ll think of your love . 
art thou afeard To be the same in thine own act and valor As thou art in desire ? 	are you afraid to act the way you desire ? 
wouldst thou have that Which thou esteem’st the ornament of life ,  And live a coward in thine own esteem ,  Letting  “ I dare not ”  wait upon  “ I would ,   ”  Like the poor cat i' th' adage ? 	you’re like the poor cat in the old story . 
what beast was ’t ,  then ,  That made you break this enterprise to me ? 	If you weren’t a man ,  then what kind of animal were you when you first told me you wanted to do this ? 
what not put upon His spongy officers ,  who shall bear the guilt Of our great quell ? 	and whatever we do ,  we can lay all the blame on the drunken servants . 
bring forth men - children only ,  For thy undaunted mettle should compose Nothing but males . 	may you only give birth to male children ,  because your fearless spirit should create nothing that isn’t masculine . 
will it not be received ,  When we have marked with blood those sleepy two Of his own chamber and used their very daggers ,  That they have done ’t ? 	once we have covered the two servants with blood ,  and used their daggers to kill ,  won’t people believe that they were the culprits ? 
away ,  and mock the time with fairest show . 	go now ,  and pretend to be a friendly hostess . 
false face must hide what the false heart doth know . 	hide with a false pleasant face what you know in your false ,  evil heart . 
how goes the night ,  boy ? 	how’s the night going ,  boy ? 
the moon is down . 	the moon has set . 
I have not heard the clock . 	the clock hasn’t struck yet . 
and she goes down at twelve . 	the moon sets at twelve ,  right ? 
I take ’t ’tis later ,  sir . 	I think it’s later than that ,  sir . 
hold ,  take my sword . 	here ,  take my sword . 
there’s husbandry in heaven; Their candles are all out . 	the heavens are being stingy with their light . 
take thee that too . 	take this ,  too . 
a heavy summons lies like lead upon me ,  And yet I would not sleep . 	I’m tired and feeling heavy ,  but I can’t sleep . 
merciful powers ,  Restrain in me the cursèd thoughts that nature Gives way to in repose . 	merciful powers ,  keep away the nightmares that plague me when I rest ! 
give me my sword . 	give me my sword . 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
a friend . 	a friend . 
what ,  sir ,  not yet at rest ? 	you’re not asleep yet ,  sir ? 
the king’s a - bed . 	the king’s in bed . 
he hath been in unusual pleasure ,  and Sent forth great largess to your offices . 	he’s been in an unusually good mood and has granted many gifts to your household and servants . 
this diamond he greets your wife withal ,  By the name of most kind hostess ,  and shut up In measureless content . 	this diamond is a present from him to your wife for her boundless hospitality . 
being unprepared ,  Our will became the servant to defect ,  Which else should free have wrought . 	because we were unprepared for the king’s visit ,  we weren’t able to entertain him as well as we would have wanted to . 
what bloody man is that ? 	who is this bloody man ? 
he can report ,  As seemeth by his plight ,  of the revolt The newest state . 	judging from his appearance ,  I bet he can tell us the latest news about the revolt . 
this is the sergeant Who like a good and hardy soldier fought 'Gainst my captivity . 	this is the brave sergeant who fought to keep me from being captured . 
hail ,  brave friend ! 	hail ,  brave friend ! 
say to the king the knowledge of the broil As thou didst leave it . 	tell the king what was happening in the battle when you left it . 
doubtful it stood ,  As two spent swimmers that do cling together And choke their art . 	the armies were like two exhausted swimmers clinging to each other and struggling in the water ,  unable to move . 
o valiant cousin ! 	my brave relative ! 
worthy gentleman ! 	what a worthy man ! 
all’s well . 	everything’s OK . 
I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters: To you they have showed some truth . 	I had a dream last night about the three witches . 
I think not of them . 	I don’t think about them now . 
yet ,  when we can entreat an hour to serve ,  We would spend it in some words upon that business ,  If you would grant the time . 	but when we have an hour to spare we can talk more about it ,  if you’re willing . 
at your kind’st leisure . 	whenever you like . 
If you shall cleave to my consent ,  when ’tis ,  It shall make honor for you . 	If you stick with me ,  when the time comes ,  there will be something in it for you . 
good repose the while ! 	rest easy in the meantime . 
thanks ,  sir: the like to you ! 	thank you ,  sir . 
get thee to bed . 	you do the same . 
Is this a dagger which I see before me ,  The handle toward my hand ? 	Is this a dagger I see in front of me ,  with its handle pointing toward my hand ? 
whiles I threat ,  he lives . 	I’m going now . 
hear it not ,  Duncan ,  for it is a knell That summons thee to heaven or to hell . 	don’t listen to the bell ,  Duncan ,  because it summons you either to heaven or to hell . 
that which hath made them drunk hath made me bold . 	the alcohol that got the servants drunk has made me bold . 
what hath quenched them hath given me fire . 	the same liquor that quenched their thirst has fired me up . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
peace ! 	quiet ! 
my husband ! 	my husband ! 
I have done the deed . 	I have done the deed . 
didst thou not hear a noise ? 	did you hear a noise ? 
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry . 	I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry . 
did not you speak ? 	didn’t you say something ? 
when ? 	when ? 
now . 	just now . 
as I descended ? 	as I came down ? 
ay . 	yes . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
who lies i' th' second chamber ? 	who’s sleeping in the second chamber ? 
donalbain . 	donalbain . 
a foolish thought ,  to say a sorry sight . 	that’s a stupid thing to say . 
one cried ,   “ God bless us !  ”  and  “ Amen ”  the other ,  As they had seen me with these hangman’s hands . 	one servant cried ,   “ God bless us !  ”  and the other replied ,   “ Amen ,  ”  as if they had seen my bloody hands . 
list'ning their fear I could not say  “ Amen ,  ”  When they did say  “ God bless us !  ”  Consider it not so deeply . 	listening to their frightened voices ,  I couldn’t reply  “ Amen ”  when they said  “ God bless us !  ”  Don’t think about it so much . 
but wherefore could not I pronounce  “ Amen ”  ? 	but why couldn’t I say  “ Amen ”  ? 
I had most need of blessing ,  and  “ Amen ”  Stuck in my throat . 	I desperately needed God’s blessing ,  but the word  “ Amen ”  stuck in my throat . 
these deeds must not be thought After these ways . 	we can’t think that way about what we did . 
so ,  it will make us mad . 	If we do ,  it’ll drive us crazy . 
methought I heard a voice cry ,   “ Sleep no more ! 	I thought I heard a voice cry ,   “ Sleep no more ! 
what do you mean ? 	what are you talking about ? 
still it cried ,   “ Sleep no more !  ”  to all the house . 	the voice kept crying ,   “ Sleep no more !  ”  to everyone in the house . 
go get some water ,  And wash this filthy witness from your hand . 	go get some water and wash this bloody evidence from your hands . 
why did you bring these daggers from the place ? 	why did you carry these daggers out of the room ? 
they must lie there . 	they have to stay there . 
go carry them and smear The sleepy grooms with blood . 	go take them back and smear the sleeping guards with the blood . 
Infirm of purpose ! 	coward ! 
give me the daggers . 	give me the daggers . 
the sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures . 	only children are afraid of scary pictures . 
If he do bleed ,  I’ll gild the faces of the grooms withal ,  For it must seem their guilt . 	If Duncan bleeds I’ll paint the servants' faces with his blood . 
whence is that knocking ? 	where is that knocking coming from ? 
how is ’t with me when every noise appals me ? 	what’s happening to me ,  that I’m frightened of every noise ? 
I hear a knocking At the south entry . 	I hear someone knocking at the south entry . 
retire we to our chamber . 	let’s go back to our bedroom . 
a little water clears us of this deed . 	a little water will wash away the evidence of our guilt . 
how easy is it ,  then ! 	It’s so simple ! 
your constancy Hath left you unattended . 	you’ve lost your resolve . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
more knocking . 	there’s more knocking . 
get on your nightgown ,  lest occasion call us And show us to be watchers . 	put on your nightgown ,  in case someone comes and sees that we’re awake . 
be not lost So poorly in your thoughts . 	snap out of your daze . 
wake Duncan with thy knocking . 	wake Duncan with your knocking . 
I would thou couldst . 	I wish you could ! 
knock ,  knock ,  knock ! 	knock ,  knock ,  knock ! 
knock ,  knock ! 	knock ,  knock ! 
who’s there ,  in th' other devil’s name ? 	who’s there ,  in the other devil’s name ? 
o ,  come in ,  equivocator . 	come on in ,  con man . 
knock ,  knock ,  knock ! 	knock ,  knock ,  knock ! 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
faith ,  here’s an English tailor come hither for stealing out of a French hose . 	maybe it’s an English tailor who liked to skimp on the fabric for people’s clothes . 
come in ,  tailor . 	come on in ,  tailor . 
here you may roast your goose . 	you can heat your iron up in here . 
knock ,  knock ! 	knock ,  knock ! 
never at quiet . 	never a moment of peace ! 
what are you ? 	who are you ? 
but this place is too cold for hell . 	ah ,  this place is too cold to be hell . 
I’ll devil - porter it no further . 	I won’t pretend to be the devil’s porter anymore . 
anon ,  anon ! 	I’m coming ,  I’m coming ! 
I pray you ,  remember the porter . 	please ,  don’t forget to leave me a tip . 
was it so late ,  friend ,  ere you went to bed ,  That you do lie so late ? 	did you go to bed so late ,  my friend ,  that you’re having a hard time getting up now ? 
what three things does drink especially provoke ? 	what three things does drink make a man do ? 
lechery ,  sir ,  it provokes and unprovokes . 	It sets you up for a fall . 
It provokes the desire ,  but it takes away the performance . 	It persuades you and discourages you . 
I believe drink gave thee the lie last night . 	I believe drink did all of this to you last night . 
Is thy master stirring ? 	Is your master awake ? 
our knocking has awaked him . 	our knocking woke him up . 
here he comes . 	here he comes . 
good morrow ,  noble sir . 	good morning ,  noble sir . 
good morrow ,  both . 	good morning to both of you . 
Is the king stirring ,  worthy thane ? 	Is the king awake ,  worthy thane ? 
not yet . 	not yet . 
he did command me to call timely on him . 	he commanded me to wake him up early . 
I have almost slipped the hour . 	I’ve almost missed the time he requested . 
I’ll bring you to him . 	I’ll bring you to him . 
I know this is a joyful trouble to you ,  But yet ’tis one . 	I know the burden of hosting him is both an honor and a trouble ,  but that doesn’t mean it’s not a trouble just the same . 
the labor we delight in physics pain . 	the work we enjoy is not really work . 
this is the door . 	this is the door . 
I’ll make so bold to call ,  For ’tis my limited service . 	I’ll wake him ,  because that’s my job . 
goes the king hence today ? 	Is the king leaving here today ? 
he does . 	he is . 
he did appoint so . 	he told us to arrange it . 
the night has been unruly . 	the night has been chaotic . 
where we lay ,  Our chimneys were blown down and ,  as they say ,  Lamentings heard i' th' air ,  strange screams of death ,  And prophesying with accents terrible Of dire combustion and confused events New hatched to the woeful time . 	the wind blew down through the chimneys where we were sleeping . 
the obscure bird Clamored the livelong night . 	the owl made noise all night . 
some say the Earth Was feverous and did shake . 	some people say that the earth shook as if it had a fever . 
twas a rough night . 	It was a rough night . 
my young remembrance cannot parallel A fellow to it . 	I’m too young to remember anything like it . 
o horror ,  horror ,  horror ! 	oh ,  horror ,  horror ,  horror ! 
tongue nor heart cannot conceive nor name thee ! 	this is beyond words and beyond belief ! 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
confusion now hath made his masterpiece . 	the worst thing imaginable has happened . 
the life ”  ? 	the life ”  ? 
mean you his majesty ? 	do you mean the king ? 
mark ,  King of Scotland ,  mark: No sooner justice had ,  with valor armed ,  Compelled these skipping kerns to trust their heels ,  But the Norweyan lord ,  surveying vantage ,  With furbished arms and new supplies of men ,  Began a fresh assault . 	listen to this ,  King: as soon as we sent those Irish soldiers running for cover ,  the Norwegian king saw his chance to attack us with fresh troops and shiny weapons . 
dismayed not this our captains ,  Macbeth and Banquo ? 	didn’t this frighten our captains ,  Macbeth and Banquo ? 
yes ,  as sparrows eagles ,  or the hare the lion . 	the new challenge scared them about as much as sparrows frighten eagles ,  or rabbits frighten a lion . 
If I say sooth ,  I must report they were As cannons overcharged with double cracks ,  So they doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe . 	to tell you the truth ,  they fought the new enemy with twice as much force as before; they were like cannons loaded with double ammunition . 
so well thy words become thee as thy wounds; They smack of honor both . 	your words ,  like your wounds ,  bring you honor . 
go get him surgeons . 	take him to the surgeons . 
who comes here ? 	who is this ? 
so should he look That seems to speak things strange . 	he looks like someone with a strange tale to tell . 
approach the chamber ,  and destroy your sight With a new Gorgon . 	go into the bedroom and see for yourself . 
do not bid me speak . 	don’t ask me to talk about it . 
see ,  and then speak yourselves . 	go look and then do the talking yourselves . 
awake ,  awake ! 	wake up ,  wake up ! 
ring the alarum bell . 	ring the alarm bell . 
murder and treason ! 	murder and treason ! 
banquo and Donalbain ! 	banquo and Donalbain ,  Malcolm ! 
awake ! 	wake up ! 
shake off this downy sleep ,  death’s counterfeit ,  And look on death itself ! 	shake off sleep ,  which looks like death ,  and look at death itself ! 
up ,  up ,  and see The great doom’s image ! 	get up ,  get up ,  and look at this image of doomsday ! 
malcolm ! 	malcolm ! 
banquo ! 	banquo ! 
as from your graves rise up ,  and walk like sprites ,  To countenance this horror ! 	get up from your beds as if you were rising out of your own graves ,  and walk like ghosts to come witness this horror . 
speak ,  speak ! 	speak up and tell me ! 
o gentle lady ,  'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak: The repetition ,  in a woman’s ear ,  Would murder as it fell . 	If I repeated it to you ,  it would kill you as soon as you heard it . 
o Banquo ,  Banquo ,  Our royal master’s murdered ! 	oh Banquo ,  Banquo ,  the king has been murdered ! 
woe ,  alas ! 	how horrible ! 
what ,  in our house ? 	what ,  in our own house ? 
dear Duff ,  I prithee ,  contradict thyself ,  And say it is not so . 	dear Macduff ,  I beg you ,  tell us you were lying and say it isn’t so . 
had I but died an hour before this chance ,  I had lived a blessèd time ,  for from this instant There’s nothing serious in mortality . 	If I had only died an hour before this event I could say I had lived a blessed life . 
all is but toys . 	everything is a sick joke . 
renown and grace is dead . 	the graceful and renowned king is dead . 
the wine of life is drawn ,  and the mere lees Is left this vault to brag of . 	the wine of life has been poured out ,  and only the dregs remain . 
what is amiss ? 	what’s wrong ? 
you are ,  and do not know ’t . 	you are ,  but you don’t know it yet . 
the spring ,  the head ,  the fountain of your blood Is stopped; the very source of it is stopped . 	the source from which your royal blood comes has been stopped . 
your royal father’s murdered . 	your royal father is murdered . 
oh ,  by whom ? 	who did it ? 
those of his chamber ,  as it seemed ,  had done ’t . 	It seems that the guards who were supposed to be protecting his chamber did it . 
their hands and faces were all badged with blood . 	their hands and faces were all covered with blood . 
so were their daggers ,  which unwiped we found Upon their pillows . 	so were their daggers ,  which we found on their pillows ,  unwiped . 
they stared ,  and were distracted . 	they stared at us in confusion . 
no man’s life was to be trusted with them . 	no one’s life should have been entrusted to them . 
oh ,  yet I do repent me of my fury ,  That I did kill them . 	and yet I still regret the anger that drove me to kill them . 
wherefore did you so ? 	what did you do that for ? 
who can be wise ,  amazed ,  temp'rate ,  and furious ,  Loyal and neutral ,  in a moment ? 	Is it possible to be wise ,  bewildered ,  calm ,  furious ,  loyal ,  and neutral all at once ? 
here lay Duncan ,  His silver skin laced with his golden blood ,  And his gashed stabs looked like a breach in nature For ruin’s wasteful entrance; there ,  the murderers ,  Steeped in the colors of their trade ,  their daggers Unmannerly breeched with gore . 	then right next to him I saw the murderers ,  dripping with blood ,  their daggers rudely covered in gore . 
who could refrain ,  That had a heart to love ,  and in that heart Courage to make ’s love known ? 	who could have restrained himself ,  who loved Duncan and had the courage to act on it ? 
help me hence ,  ho ! 	help me out of here ,  quickly ! 
look to the lady . 	take care of the lady . 
fears and scruples shake us . 	right now we’re shaken up by fears and doubts . 
In the great hand of God I stand ,  and thence Against the undivulged pretense I fight Of treasonous malice . 	I’m putting myself in God’s hands ,  and with his help I plan to fight against the secret plot that caused this treasonous murder . 
and so do I . 	so will I . 
so all . 	so will we all . 
let’s briefly put on manly readiness ,  And meet i' th' hall together . 	let’s get dressed quickly and then meet in the hall . 
well contented . 	agreed . 
what will you do ? 	what are you going to do ? 
let’s not consort with them . 	let’s not stay here with them . 
to show an unfelt sorrow is an office Which the false man does easy . 	It’s easy for a liar to pretend to feel sorrow when he actually feels none . 
I’ll to England . 	I’m going to England . 
to Ireland ,  I . 	I’ll go to Ireland . 
our separated fortune Shall keep us both the safer . 	we’ll both be safer if we go separate ways . 
where we are ,  There’s daggers in men’s smiles . 	wherever we go ,  men will smile at us while hiding daggers . 
the near in blood ,  The nearer bloody . 	our closest relatives are the ones most likely to murder us . 
this murderous shaft that’s shot Hath not yet lighted ,  and our safest way Is to avoid the aim . 	we haven’t yet encountered that danger ,  and the best thing to do is avoid it entirely . 
there’s warrant in that theft Which steals itself when there’s no mercy left . 	there’s good reason to escape when there’s no mercy to be found anymore . 
threescore and ten I can remember well ,  Within the volume of which time I have seen Hours dreadful and things strange ,  but this sore night Hath trifled former knowings . 	I can remember the past seventy years pretty well ,  and in all that time I have seen dreadful hours and strange things . 
by th' clock ’tis day ,  And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp . 	the clock says it’s daytime ,  but dark night is strangling the sun . 
tis said they eat each other . 	they say the horses ate each other . 
they did so ,  to th' amazement of mine eyes That looked upon ’t . 	I saw it with my own eyes . 
here comes the good Macduff . 	here comes the good Macduff . 
how goes the world ,  sir ,  now ? 	how are things going now ? 
why ,  see you not ? 	can’t you see for yourself ? 
those that Macbeth hath slain . 	the servants Macbeth killed . 
they were suborned . 	they were paid to betray their master . 
malcolm and Donalbain ,  the king’s two sons ,  Are stol'n away and fled ,  which puts upon them Suspicion of the deed . 	malcolm and Donalbain ,  the king’s two sons ,  have run away and fled ,  which makes them the prime suspects . 
thriftless ambition ,  that will raven up Thine own lives' means ! 	everything about this is unnatural ! 
then ’tis most like The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth . 	then it looks like Macbeth will become king . 
he is already named and gone to Scone To be invested . 	he has already been named king and has left for Scone to be crowned . 
where is Duncan’s body ? 	where is Duncan’s body ? 
carried to Colmekill ,  The sacred storehouse of his predecessors ,  And guardian of their bones . 	It was carried to Colmekill to be placed in the tomb of his ancestors ,  where their bones are kept safe . 
will you to Scone ? 	are you going to Scone ? 
no ,  cousin ,  I’ll to Fife . 	no ,  cousin ,  I’m going to Fife . 
well ,  I will thither . 	well ,  I’ll go to Scone . 
well ,  may you see things well done there . 	I hope things go well there . 
adieu ,  Lest our old robes sit easier than our new ! 	good - bye ! 
farewell ,  father . 	farewell ,  old man . 
god’s benison go with you and with those That would make good of bad and friends of foes . 	may God’s blessing go with you and with all who turn bad into good ,  and enemies into friends ! 
yet it was said It should not stand in thy posterity ,  But that myself should be the root and father Of many kings . 	but it was also prophesied that the crown would not go to your descendants ,  and that my sons and grandsons would be kings instead . 
If there come truth from them— As upon thee ,  Macbeth ,  their speeches shine— Why ,  by the verities on thee made good ,  May they not be my oracles as well ,  And set me up in hope ? 	If the witches tell the truth—which they did about you—maybe what they said about me will come true too . 
but hush ,  no more . 	but shhh ! 
here’s our chief guest . 	I’ll shut up now . 
let your highness Command upon me ,  to the which my duties Are with a most indissoluble tie Forever knit . 	whatever your highness commands me to do ,  it is always my duty to do it . 
ride you this afternoon ? 	are you going riding this afternoon ? 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
we should have else desired your good advice— Which still hath been both grave and prosperous— In this day’s council ,  but we’ll take tomorrow . 	we would have liked to have heard your good advice ,  which has always been serious and helpful ,  at the council today ,  but we’ll wait until tomorrow . 
Is ’t far you ride ? 	are you riding far ? 
as far ,  my lord ,  as will fill up the time 'Twixt this and supper . 	I’m going far enough that I’ll be riding from now until dinner . 
go not my horse the better ,  I must become a borrower of the night For a dark hour or twain . 	unless my horse goes faster than expected ,  I will be back an hour or two after sunset . 
fail not our feast . 	don’t miss our feast . 
my lord ,  I will not . 	my lord ,  I won’t miss it . 
but of that tomorrow ,  When therewithal we shall have cause of state Craving us jointly . 	but we can talk more about that tomorrow ,  when we’ll discuss matters of state that concern us both . 
hie you to horse . 	hurry up and get to your horse . 
adieu ,  Till your return at night . 	good - bye ,  until you return tonight . 
goes Fleance with you ? 	Is Fleance going with you ? 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
our time does call upon ’s . 	It’s time we hit the road . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
let every man be master of his time Till seven at night . 	everybody may do as they please until seven o'clock tonight . 
to make society The sweeter welcome ,  we will keep ourself Till suppertime alone . 	In order to make your company even more enjoyable ,  I’m going to keep to myself until suppertime . 
while then ,  God be with you ! 	until then ,  God be with you ! 
bring them before us . 	bring them to me . 
our fears in Banquo Stick deep ,  and in his royalty of nature Reigns that which would be feared . 	I’m very afraid of Banquo . 
tis much he dares ,  And to that dauntless temper of his mind He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor To act in safety . 	he has the wisdom to act bravely but also safely . 
there is none but he Whose being I do fear ,  and under him My genius is rebuked ,  as it is said Mark Antony’s was by Caesar . 	I’m not afraid of anyone but him . 
then ,  prophetlike ,  They hailed him father to a line of kings . 	then ,  like prophets ,  they named him the father to a line of kings . 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ! 
god save the king . 	god save the king ! 
great happiness ! 	great happiness ! 
that now Sweno ,  the Norways' king ,  craves composition . 	so now Sweno ,  the Norwegian king ,  wants a treaty . 
nor would we deign him burial of his men Till he disbursed at Saint Colme’s Inch Ten thousand dollars to our general use . 	we told him we wouldn’t even let him bury his men until he retreated to Saint Colme’s Inch and paid us ten thousand dollars . 
no more that thane of Cawdor shall deceive Our bosom interest: go pronounce his present death ,  And with his former title greet Macbeth . 	go announce that he will be executed ,  and tell Macbeth that Cawdor’s titles will be given to him . 
I’ll see it done . 	I’ll get it done right away . 
what he hath lost ,  noble Macbeth hath won . 	the thane of Cawdor has lost what the noble Macbeth has won . 
now go to the door and stay there till we call . 	now go to the door and stay there until I call for you . 
was it not yesterday we spoke together ? 	wasn’t it just yesterday that we spoke to each other ? 
It was ,  so please your highness . 	It was yesterday ,  your highness . 
well then ,  now Have you considered of my speeches ? 	well ,  did you think about what I said ? 
this I made good to you In our last conference ,  passed in probation with you ,  How you were borne in hand ,  how crossed ,  the instruments ,  Who wrought with them ,  and all things else that might To half a soul and to a notion crazed Say ,   “ Thus did Banquo .  ”       You made it known to us . 	I explained how you were deceived ,  how you were thwarted ,  the things that were used against you ,  who was working against you ,  and a lot of other things that would convince even a half - wit or a crazy person to say ,   “ Banquo did it !  ”  You explained it all . 
I did so ,  and went further ,  which is now Our point of second meeting . 	I did that and more ,  which brings me to the point of this second meeting . 
do you find Your patience so predominant in your nature That you can let this go ? 	are you so patient and forgiving that you’re going to let him off the hook ? 
are you so gospeled To pray for this good man and for his issue ,  Whose heavy hand hath bowed you to the grave And beggared yours forever ? 	are you so pious that you would pray for this man and his children ,  a man who has pushed you toward an early grave and put your family in poverty forever ? 
we are men ,  my liege . 	we are men ,  my lord . 
ay ,  in the catalogue ye go for men ,  As hounds and greyhounds ,  mongrels ,  spaniels ,  curs ,  Shoughs ,  water - rugs ,  and demi - wolves are clept All by the name of dogs . 	just as hounds and greyhounds ,  mongrels ,  spaniels ,  mutts ,  shaggy lapdogs ,  swimming dogs ,  and wolf - dog crossbreeds are all dogs . 
and so of men . 	It’s the same with men . 
I am one ,  my liege ,  Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world Have so incensed that I am reckless what I do to spite the world . 	now ,  if you occupy some place in the list of men that isn’t down at the very bottom ,  tell me . 
and I another So weary with disasters ,  tugged with fortune ,  That I would set my life on any chance ,  To mend it or be rid on ’t . 	because if that’s the case ,  I will tell you a plan that will get rid of your enemy and bring you closer to me . 
both of you Know Banquo was your enemy . 	you both know Banquo was your enemy . 
true ,  my lord . 	It’s true ,  my lord . 
we shall ,  my lord ,  Perform what you command us . 	we’ll do what you want us to ,  my lord . 
though our lives— Your spirits shine through you . 	though our lives—   We have decided ,  my lord . 
we are resolved ,  my lord . 	we’re in . 
I’ll call upon you straight . 	I’ll call for you soon . 
abide within . 	stay inside . 
It is concluded . 	the deal is closed . 
banquo ,  thy soul’s flight ,  If it find heaven ,  must find it out tonight . 	banquo ,  if your soul is going to make it to heaven ,  tonight’s the night . 
Is Banquo gone from court ? 	has Banquo left the court ? 
ay ,  madam ,  but returns again tonight . 	yes ,  madam ,  but he’ll be back tonight . 
say to the king I would attend his leisure For a few words . 	go tell the king I want to talk to him for a few minutes . 
madam ,  I will . 	no problem ,  madam . 
naught’s had ,  all’s spent ,  Where our desire is got without content . 	If you get what you want and you’re still not happy ,  you’ve spent everything and gained nothing . 
tis safer to be that which we destroy Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy . 	It’s better to be the person who gets murdered than to be the killer and be tormented with anxiety . 
how now ,  my lord ! 	what’s going on ,  my lord ? 
what’s done is done . 	what’s done is done . 
we have scorched the snake ,  not killed it . 	we have slashed the snake but not killed it . 
she’ll close and be herself whilst our poor malice Remains in danger of her former tooth . 	It will heal and be as good as new ,  and we’ll be threatened by its fangs once again . 
better be with the dead ,  Whom we ,  to gain our peace ,  have sent to peace ,  Than on the torture of the mind to lie In restless ecstasy . 	we killed those men and sent them to rest in peace so that we could gain our own peace . 
treason has done his worst; nor steel nor poison ,  Malice domestic ,  foreign levy ,  nothing Can touch him further . 	after that ,  nothing can hurt him further—not weapons ,  poison ,  rebellion ,  invasion ,  or anything else . 
come on ,  gentle my lord ,  Sleek o'er your rugged looks . 	come on ,  relax ,  dear . 
so shall I ,  love ,  And so ,  I pray ,  be you . 	that’s exactly what I’ll do ,  my love ,  and I hope you’ll do the same . 
you must leave this . 	you have to stop talking like this . 
thou know’st that Banquo ,  and his Fleance ,  lives . 	you know that Banquo and his son Fleance are still alive . 
there’s comfort yet; they are assailable . 	that’s comforting . 
then be thou jocund . 	so be cheerful . 
ere the bat hath flown His cloistered flight ,  ere to black Hecate’s summons The shard - borne beetle with his drowsy hums Hath rung night’s yawning peal ,  there shall be done A deed of dreadful note . 	before the bat flies through the castle ,  and before the dung beetle makes his little humming noise to tell us it’s nighttime ,  a dreadful deed will be done . 
what’s to be done ? 	what are you going to do ? 
when shall we three meet again ? 	when should the three of us meet again ? 
In thunder ,  lightning ,  or in rain ? 	In thunder ,  lightning ,  or in rain ? 
when the hurlyburly's done; When the battle's lost and won . 	when all the uproar is over ,  When the battle has been lost and won . 
that will be ere the set of sun . 	that will be before sunset . 
where the place ? 	where should we meet ? 
upon the heath . 	upon the heath . 
there to meet with Macbeth . 	that’s where we’ll meet with Macbeth . 
paddock calls . 	the old toad is calling me . 
anon ! 	In a minute ! 
fair is foul ,  and foul is fair . 	beautiful is disgustingly filthy ,  and disgustingly filthy is beautiful . 
hover through the fog and filthy air . 	let’s float through the fog and filthy air . 
what bloody man is that ? 	what man is that with blood all over him ? 
he can report ,  As seemeth by his plight ,  of the revolt The newest state . 	from the looks of him ,  he can tell us the latest news Of the revolt . 
this is the sergeant ,  Who ,  like a good and hardy soldier fought ’Gainst my captivity . 	this is the sergeant Who ,  like a good and hardy soldier ,  fought Against my being taken prisoner . 
hail ,  brave friend ! 	hail ,  brave friend ! 
say to the King the knowledge of the broil As thou didst leave it . 	tell the king what you know about the battle When you left it . 
doubtful it stood ,  As two spent swimmers that do cling together And choke their art . 	the outcome was doubtful; Men fought like tired swimmers who cling together And wind up choking . 
o valiant cousin ! 	o valiant cousin ! 
worthy gentleman ! 	worthy gentleman ! 
as whence the sun ’gins his reflection Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break ,  So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come Discomfort swells . 	just as when the sun rises and Shipwrecking storms and terrible thunder stop ,  So from that man ,  who seemed to bring comfort ,  Discomfort got worse . 
dismay'd not this Our captains ,  Macbeth and Banquo ? 	our captains ,  Macbeth and Banquo ,  Were not upset by this ? 
yes ,  As sparrows eagles ,  or the hare the lion . 	yes; As sparrows are by eagles ,  or the hare is by the lion . 
except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds ,  Or memorize another Golgotha ,  I cannot tell— But I am faint; my gashes cry for help . 	whether they meant to bathe in fresh ,  bleeding wounds ,  Or create another Crucifixion scene ,  I cannot tell . 
so well thy words become thee as thy wounds; They smack of honor both . 	your words suit you as your wounds do; They both tell of honor . 
who comes here ? 	who’s this coming here ? 
the worthy Thane of Ross . 	the worthy Baron of Ross . 
what a haste looks through his eyes ! 	he looks as though he’s in a great hurry ! 
so should he look That seems to speak things strange . 	he look should look that way with so many strange things To say . 
god save the King ! 	god save the King ! 
whence camest thou ,  worthy Thane ? 	where have you come from ,  worthy baron ? 
from Fife ,  great King ,  Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky And fan our people cold . 	from Fife ,  great king; Where the Norwegian banners insult the sky And ,  like a fan ,  make our people cold . 
great happiness ! 	great happiness ! 
that now Sweno ,  the Norways’ king ,  craves composition; Nor would we deign him burial of his men Till he disbursed ,  at Saint Colme's Inch ,  Ten thousand dollars to our general use . 	then Sweno ,  Norwegian king ,  wanted a treaty; We would not agree to the burial of his men Until he paid us ,  at Saint Colme's island ,  Ten thousand dollars to our general use . 
no more that Thane of Cawdor shall deceive Our bosom interest . 	that Baron of Cawdor shall no longer betray Matters close to our heart . 
go pronounce his present death ,  And with his former title greet Macbeth . 	order his death immediately ,  And ,  with the traitor’s former title ,  greet Macbeth . 
I'll see it done . 	I'll see it is done . 
what he hath lost ,  noble Macbeth hath won . 	what the traitor has lost ,  noble Macbeth has won . 
where hast thou been ,  sister ? 	where have you been ,  sister ? 
killing swine . 	killing pigs . 
sister ,  where thou ? 	sister ,  where were you ? 
a sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap ,  And mounch'd ,  and mounch'd ,  and mounch'd . 	a sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap ,  And munched ,  and munched ,  and munched . 
give me ,  ”  quoth I . 	give me ,  "  said I . 
aroint thee ,  witch !  ”  the rump - fed ronyon cries . 	the fat ,  sloppy woman cries . 
I'll give thee a wind . 	I'll give you a wind for your sail . 
thou'rt kind . 	you are kind . 
and I another . 	and I will give you another one . 
weary se'nnights nine times nine Shall he dwindle ,  peak ,  and pine; Though his bark cannot be lost ,  Yet it shall be tempest - tost . 	though his ship will not be lost ,  It will be tossed about on the rough ocean . 
look what I have . 	look what I have . 
show me ,  show me . 	show me ,  show me . 
a drum ,  a drum ! 	a drum ,  a drum ! 
macbeth doth come . 	macbeth does come . 
peace ! 	quiet ! 
the charm's wound up . 	the charm’s going to bring things to a head . 
so foul and fair a day I have not seen . 	I have never seen a day that is so disgustingly filthy and beautiful . 
how far is't call'd to Forres ? 	how far is it to the town of Forres ? 
what are these So wither'd ,  and so wild in their attire ,  That look not like the inhabitants o’ the earth ,  And yet are on't ? 	what are these things With shrunken skin and wild clothes ,  That don’t look not like they live on earth ,  Only are still on it ? 
live you ? 	are you alive ? 
or are you aught That man may question ? 	or are you any thing That man may question ? 
you seem to understand me ,  By each at once her choppy finger laying Upon her skinny lips . 	you seem to understand me ,  Since you each are laying a scrawny finger Upon your skinny lips . 
you should be women ,  And yet your beards forbid me to interpret That you are so . 	you should be women ,  Only since you have beards ,  I can’t say That you are women . 
all hail ,  Macbeth ! 	all hail ,  Macbeth ! 
hail to thee ,  Thane of Glamis ! 	hail to you ,  Baron of Glamis ! 
all hail ,  Macbeth ! 	all hail ,  Macbeth ! 
hail to thee ,  Thane of Cawdor ! 	hail to you ,  Baron of Cawdor ! 
good sir ,  why do you start ,  and seem to fear Things that do sound so fair ? 	good sir ,  why are you startled ,  and seem afraid of Things that sound so beautiful ? 
I’ the name of truth ,  Are ye fantastical or that indeed Which outwardly ye show ? 	In the name of truth ,  Are you fantastic beings or indeed what You look like ? 
my noble partner You greet with present grace and great prediction Of noble having and of royal hope ,  That he seems rapt withal . 	you greet my noble partner With current grace and great predictions Of having nobility and of the hope to be king ,  that he seems carried away as well . 
to me you speak not . 	only you don’t speak to me . 
If you can look into the seeds of time ,  And say which grain will grow and which will not ,  Speak then to me ,  who neither beg nor fear Your favors nor your hate . 	If you can look into the future ,  And say what will happen ,  and what will not ,  Then speak to me ,  who doesn’t beg or is afraid of Your favors or your hateful spells . 
hail ! 	hail ! 
hail ! 	hail ! 
hail ! 	hail ! 
lesser than Macbeth ,  and greater . 	you will be less than Macbeth ,  and much greater . 
not so happy ,  yet much happier . 	not as happy as Macbeth ,  only still much happier . 
thou shalt get kings ,  though thou be none . 	your sons will be kings ,  even though you will not be king . 
so all hail ,  Macbeth and Banquo ! 	so all hail ,  Macbeth and Banquo ! 
banquo and Macbeth ,  all hail ! 	banquo and Macbeth ,  all hail ! 
stay ,  you imperfect speakers ,  tell me more . 	wait ,  you incomplete speakers ,  tell me more . 
by Sinel's death I know I am Thane of Glamis; But how of Cawdor ? 	by inheritance ,  I know I am Baron of Glamis; Only how am I Baron of Cawdor ? 
the Thane of Cawdor lives ,  A prosperous gentleman; and to be King Stands not within the prospect of belief ,  No more than to be Cawdor . 	the Baron of Cawdor lives ,  A prosperous gentleman; and for me to be king Is beyond belief ,  No more than to be Baron of Cawdor . 
say from whence You owe this strange intelligence ,  or why Upon this blasted heath you stop our way With such prophetic greeting ? 	or why You interrupt our journey on this blasted heath With such prophetic greeting ? 
speak ,  I charge you . 	speak ,  I command you . 
the earth hath bubbles as the water has ,  And these are of them . 	the earth has bubbles ,  as boiling water has ,  And these spirits are like that . 
whither are they vanish'd ? 	where did they vanished to ? 
Into the air ,  and what seem'd corporal melted As breath into the wind . 	Into the air; and what seemed solid melted Like breath into the wind . 
would they had stay'd ! 	I wish they had stayed ! 
were such things here as we do speak about ? 	are you sure we’re talking about what we’ve seen here ? 
or have we eaten on the insane root That takes the reason prisoner ? 	or have we eaten some plant root That makes us hallucinate ? 
your children shall be kings . 	your children shall be kings . 
you shall be King . 	you shall be king . 
to the selfsame tune and words . 	yes ,  in just those words . 
who's here ? 	who's here ? 
silenced with that ,  In viewing o'er the rest o’ the selfsame day ,  He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks ,  Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make ,  Strange images of death . 	silenced with that story ,  And reviewing all the events of the day ,  He found you in the stout Norwegian’s ranks ,  Not afraid of what you did or the Strange images of death . 
as thick as hail Came post with post ,  and every one did bear Thy praises in his kingdom's great defense ,  And pour'd them down before him . 	the reports came in As thick as hail and every one of them sang Your praises in your great defense of the kingdom ,  And poured such praises down before the King . 
we are sent To give thee ,  from our royal master ,  thanks; Only to herald thee into his sight ,  Not pay thee . 	we are sent from our royal master ,  To give you thanks; Only to bring you ,  announced ,  into his sight ,  Not just pay you for your brave deeds . 
and for an earnest of a greater honor ,  He bade me ,  from him ,  call thee Thane of Cawdor . 	and ,  for as the first installment of a greater honor ,  He ordered me ,  from him ,  to call you Baron of Cawdor . 
In which addition ,  hail ,  most worthy Thane ,  For it is thine . 	I was also ordered to add ,  hail ,  most worthy baron ,  For the title of Baron of Cawdor is yours . 
what ,  can the devil speak true ? 	what ,  can the devil speak the truth ? 
the Thane of Cawdor lives . 	the Baron of Cawdor lives . 
why do you dress me In borrow'd robes ? 	why do you address me By his name ? 
who was the Thane lives yet ,  But under heavy judgement bears that life Which he deserves to lose . 	the man who was the Baron still lives ,  Only lives that life which he deserves to lose Under the death penalty . 
whether he was combined With those of Norway ,  or did line the rebel With hidden help and vantage ,  or that with both He labor'd in his country's wreck ,  I know not; But treasons capital ,  confess'd and proved ,  Have overthrown him . 	I don’t know whether he combined Forces with those of Norway ,  or aided the rebel With hidden help and supplies ,  or that with both He labored to overthrow his country's government ,  Only his treasons ,  punishable by death ,  confessed and proven ,  have caused his downfall . 
aside . 	aside . 
the greatest is behind . 	the greatest hurdle is behind me . 
thanks for your pains . 	thanks for your pains . 
do you not hope your children shall be kings ,  When those that gave the Thane of Cawdor to me Promised no less to them ? 	don’t you hope your children shall be kings ,  When those things that gave the Baron of Cawdor to me Promised no less to your children ? 
that ,  trusted Might yet enkindle you unto the crown ,  Besides the Thane of Cawdor . 	that ,  my best friend ,  Might still inflame you with passion for the crown ,  In addition to the title of the Baron of Cawdor . 
aside . 	aside . 
aside . 	aside . 
this supernatural Cannot be ill ,  cannot be good . 	this supernatural meeting Can’t be bad ,  only it can’t be good either . 
If ill ,  Why hath it given me earnest of success ,  Commencing in a truth ? 	If it’s bad ,  Why has it given me promise of success ,  That began with a truth ? 
I am Thane of Cawdor . 	I am Baron of Cawdor . 
If good ,  why do I yield to that suggestion Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair And make my seated heart knock at my ribs ,  Against the use of nature ? 	If it’s good ,  why do I give in to that suggestion Whose horrid image makes my hair stand on end ,  And makes my heart pound so hard they knock at my ribs ,  Against my will to stay calm ? 
look ,  how our partner's rapt . 	look ,  how our partner's in such deep thought . 
aside . 	aside . 
If chance will have me king ,  why ,  chance may crown me Without my stir . 	If luck wants me to be king ,  luck may crown me Without my doing anything at all . 
aside . 	aside . 
come what come may ,  [Aside . 	let whatever’s going to happen ,  happen . 
come what come may ,  Time and the hour runs through the roughest day . 	time and happiness can run through the roughest day . 
worthy Macbeth ,  we stay upon your leisure . 	worthy Macbeth ,  we are waiting for you . 
kind gentlemen ,  your pains Are register'd where every day I turn The leaf to read them . 	kind gentlemen ,  every day I turn The page ,  your pains are registered where I can read them . 
let us toward the king . 	let’s go see the King . 
think upon what hath chanced ,  and at more time ,  The interim having weigh'd it ,  let us speak Our free hearts each to other . 	let’s think about what has happened; and ,  later ,  When we’ve had a chance to think ,  let’s about these things openly each to other . 
very gladly . 	very gladly . 
till then ,  enough . 	until then ,  enough . 
come ,  friends . 	come ,  friends . 
Is execution done on Cawdor ? 	Is the execution of Cawdor carried out ? 
are not Those in commission yet return'd ? 	haven’t Those in charge of it returned yet ? 
my liege ,  They are not yet come back . 	my King ,  They haven’t come back yet . 
but I have spoke With one that saw him die ,  who did report That very frankly he confess'd his treasons ,  Implored your highness’ pardon ,  and set forth A deep repentance . 	only I have spoke With someone who saw him die ,  and he reported That he confessed his treasons very frankly; He begged your highness for pardon; and he seemed Very sorry . 
nothing in his life Became him like the leaving it; he died As one that had been studied in his death ,  To throw away the dearest thing he owed As ’twere a careless trifle . 	nothing he did in his life Became him so much like the leaving it; he died As someone one who had studied his own death ,  To throw away the dearest thing he owned As it were a careless trifle . 
o worthiest cousin ! 	o worthiest cousin ! 
the sin of my ingratitude even now Was heavy on me . 	the sin of my ingratitude even now Was heavy on me . 
thou art so far before ,  That swiftest wing of recompense is slow To overtake thee . 	you are so far ahead That swiftest way of repaying is slow To overtake you . 
would thou hadst less deserved ,  That the proportion both of thanks and payment Might have been mine ! 	I wish you had deserved less ,  Then the greater proportion both of thanks and payment Might have been my ! 
only I have left to say ,  More is thy due than more than all can pay . 	I can only say that You are due more than all of us can ever pay . 
the service and the loyalty I owe ,  In doing it ,  pays itself . 	In doing the service and the loyalty I owe you ,  I am well paid . 
welcome hither . 	welcome here . 
I have begun to plant thee ,  and will labor To make thee full of growing . 	I have begun to nurture your career ,  and will labor To make the most of yourself . 
noble Banquo ,  That hast no less deserved ,  nor must be known No less to have done so; let me enfold thee And hold thee to my heart . 	noble Banquo ,  Who has deserved no less ,  and must not be known To have done less than Macbeth ,  let me infold you In my arms and stop you to my heart . 
there if I grow ,  The harvest is your own . 	If I grow here in your favor ,  The harvest is yours . 
my plenteous joys ,  Wanton in fullness ,  seek to hide themselves In drops of sorrow . 	my generous welcomes ,  Childishly cruel in being so perfect ,  seek to hide themselves In tears . 
from hence to Inverness ,  And bind us further to you . 	we will go from here to Inverness ,  And then we will bind us further to you . 
my worthy Cawdor ! 	my worthy Cawdor ! 
aside . 	aside . 
that is a step On which I must fall down ,  or else o'erleap ,  For in my way it lies . 	I must fall down on that Step ,  or jump over it ,  For it’s in my way . 
true ,  worthy Banquo ! 	true ,  worthy Banquo ! 
he is full so valiant ,  And in his commendations I am fed; It is a banquet to me . 	he is so full of courage ,  And his commendations are food for me ,  A banquet to me . 
let's after him ,  Whose care is gone before to bid us welcome: It is a peerless kinsman . 	let’s go after the man Whose has gone before us to bid us welcome . 
they met me in the day of success ,  and I have learned by the perfectest report ,  they have more in them than mortal knowledge . 	they met me on the day we won the battle ,  and I have learned by the most perfect report that they have more in them than mortal knowledge . 
when I burned in desire to question them further ,  they made themselves air ,  into which they vanished . 	when I burned in desire to question them further ,  they made themselves vanish into thin air . 
yet do I fear thy nature; It is too full o’ the milk of human kindness To catch the nearest way . 	only I’m afraid your nature; It is too full of the milk of human kindness To a shortcut to power . 
thou wouldst be great; Art not without ambition ,  but without The illness should attend it . 	you could be great; You are not without ambition ,  only without The drive should usually goes with it . 
the King comes here tonight . 	the king comes here tonight . 
thou'rt mad to say it ! 	you’re crazy to say that ! 
Is not thy master with him ? 	Isn’t your master with him ? 
one of my fellows had the speed of him ,  Who ,  almost dead for breath ,  had scarcely more Than would make up his message . 	one of my friends traveled with him ,  Who ,  almost dead for breath ,  had scarcely more breath To deliver his message . 
give him tending; He brings great news . 	see to his needs; He brings great news . 
the raven himself is hoarse That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan Under my battlements . 	the raven himself is hoarse With croaking about the fatal entrance of Duncan Under my castle walls . 
come ,  you spirits That tend on mortal thoughts ,  unsex me here And fill me ,  from the crown to the toe ,  top - full Of direst cruelty ! 	come ,  you spirits That hear mortal thoughts ,  take away my womanhood; And fill me ,  from my head to my toes ,  full Of most terrible cruelty ! 
make thick my blood ,  Stop up the access and passage to remorse ,  That no compunctious visitings of nature Shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between The effect and it ! 	make my blood thick ,  Stop up the ways remorse can get into and leave my body ,  That no feelings of guilt Keep me from what I intend to do ,  or put guilt between The consequences and the deed ! 
come to my woman's breasts ,  And take my milk for gall ,  you murdering ministers ,  Wherever in your sightless substances You wait on nature's mischief ! 	come to my woman's breasts ,  And make my milk poisonous ,  you murdering ministers ,  Wherever in your blind shadows You wait on human mischief ! 
worthy Cawdor ! 	worthy Cawdor ! 
greater than both ,  by the all - hail hereafter ! 	greater than both ,  by the all - hail hereafter ! 
thy letters have transported me beyond This ignorant present ,  and I feel now The future in the instant . 	your letters have transported me beyond This ignorant present ,  and I now feel The future in the instant . 
my dearest love ,  Duncan comes here tonight . 	my dearest love ,  Duncan comes here tonight . 
and when goes hence ? 	and when does he leave ? 
tomorrow ,  as he purposes . 	tomorrow ,  as he intends . 
o ,  never Shall sun that morrow see ! 	o ,  the sun shall never See that tomorrow ! 
your face ,  my Thane ,  is as a book where men May read strange matters . 	your face ,  my baron ,  is like a book where men May read strange matters . 
we will speak further . 	we’ll have to speak more . 
this castle hath a pleasant seat; the air Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself Unto our gentle senses . 	the air Smells light and sweet To our gentle senses . 
this guest of summer ,  The temple - haunting martlet ,  does approve By his loved mansionry that the heaven's breath Smells wooingly here . 	the temple - haunting martlet ,  this bird of summer ,  Approves this place by his loved dwelling places ,  That heaven's breath smells wooingly here . 
no jutty ,  frieze ,  Buttress ,  nor coign of vantage ,  but this bird Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle; Where they most breed and haunt ,  I have observed The air is delicate . 	I have observed that the air is delicate In areas where they frequently breed and visit . 
see ,  see ,  our honor'd hostess ! 	see ,  see ,  our honored hostess ! 
the love that follows us sometime is our trouble ,  Which still we thank as love . 	the love that follows us sometimes is our trouble ,  Which are still grateful for as love . 
herein I teach you How you shall bid God ’ild us for your pains ,  And thank us for your trouble . 	herein I will teach you How you shall bid God to reward us for your pains ,  And thank us for your trouble . 
all our service In every point twice done ,  and then done double ,  Were poor and single business to contend Against those honors deep and broad wherewith Your Majesty loads our house . 	all our service ,  If done twice in every point ,  and then done double ,  Would be poor and single business to compete With those honors deep and broad that Your majesty heaps upon our house . 
for those of old ,  And the late dignities heap'd up to them ,  We rest your hermits . 	for those of old ,  And the recent titles heaped on them ,  We remain your hermits . 
where's the Thane of Cawdor ? 	where's the Baron of Cawdor ? 
we coursed him at the heels and had a purpose To be his purveyor; but he rides well ,  And his great love ,  sharp as his spur ,  hath holp him To his home before us . 	only he rides well ,  And his great love of us ,  as sharp as his spur ,  has helped him To get to his home before us . 
fair and noble hostess ,  We are your guest tonight . 	beautiful and noble hostess ,  We are your guests tonight . 
your servants ever Have theirs ,  themselves ,  and what is theirs ,  in compt ,  To make their audit at your Highness’ pleasure ,  Still to return your own . 	your servants always Have their necessities ,  themselves ,  and what they own ,  in elegance ,  To make their reckoning of accounts at your highness' pleasure ,  Still to return your own goods . 
give me your hand; Conduct me to mine host . 	give me your hand; Take me to my host . 
we love him highly ,  And shall continue our graces towards him . 	we love him highly ,  And shall continue our graces towards him . 
by your leave ,  hostess . 	with your permission ,  hostess . 
If it were done when ’tis done ,  then ’twere well It were done quickly . 	If this deed were done when it is done ,  then it would be better If it were done quickly . 
this even - handed justice Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice To our own lips . 	this balanced justice Returns the ingredients of the gold cup we poisoned To our own lips . 
he has almost supp'd . 	he has almost finished supper . 
why have you left the chamber ? 	why did you leave the dining hall ? 
hath he ask'd for me ? 	has he asked for me ? 
know you not he has ? 	don’t you know he has ? 
was the hope drunk Wherein you dress'd yourself ? 	was the hope you dressed yourself in Drunk ? 
hath it slept since ? 	did it go to sleep it off ? 
and wakes it now ,  to look so green and pale At what it did so freely ? 	and does it wake up now ,  hung over From what it so freely committed to ? 
from this time Such I account thy love . 	I will calculate your love From this time forward . 
art thou afeard To be the same in thine own act and valor As thou art in desire ? 	are you afraid To be the same man in reality As the one you wish to be ? 
wouldst thou have that Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life And live a coward in thine own esteem ,  Letting  “ I dare not ”  wait upon  “ I would ”  Like the poor cat i’ the adage ? 	would you have the crown Which you believe to be the ornament of life ,  And yet live like a coward in your own self - esteem ,  Letting  " I shouldn’t "  wait for  " I would ,  "  Like the poor cat in the proverb ? 
prithee ,  peace ! 	pray you ,  peace ! 
I dare do all that may become a man; Who dares do more is none . 	I dare to do all that may become a man; Who dares to do more is not a man . 
what beast was't then That made you break this enterprise to me ? 	what beast was it ,  then ,  That made you tell me about this plan ? 
when you durst do it ,  then you were a man; And ,  to be more than what you were ,  you would Be so much more the man . 	when you  “ dared ”  to do it ,  then you were a man; And ,  in order to be more than what you are ,  you would Be so much more the man . 
nor time nor place Did then adhere ,  and yet you would make both: They have made themselves ,  and that their fitness now Does unmake you . 	they have made themselves agree ,  and that agreement now Doesn’t agree with you . 
If we should fail ? 	If we should fail ? 
we fail ? 	we fail ! 
but screw your courage to the sticking - place ,  And we'll not fail . 	only dig deep for your courage ,  And we'll not fail . 
when Duncan is asleep— Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey Soundly invite him—his two chamberlains Will I with wine and wassail so convince ,  That memory ,  the warder of the brain ,  Shall be a fume and the receipt of reason A limbec only . 	when Duncan is asleep ,  Which should be soon since he is very tired From his day's hard journey ,  I will go to his two chamberlains With wine and carousing so Their memory ,  the guardian of the brain ,  Will be a wisp of smoke ,  and the tired brain won’t Be able to think clearly . 
what not put upon His spongy officers ,  who shall bear the guilt Of our great quell ? 	who will bear the guilt For our great slaughter ? 
bring forth men - children only ,  For thy undaunted mettle should compose Nothing but males . 	only give birth to male children ,  For your unconquered spirit should be passed on Only to males . 
will it not be received ,  When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two Of his own chamber ,  and used their very daggers ,  That they have done't ? 	won’t it be understood ,  When we have marked those sleepy two Of his own chamber with blood ,  and used their very own daggers ,  That they have done it ? 
how goes the night ,  boy ? 	how’s your night going ,  boy ? 
and she goes down at twelve . 	the moon goes down at twelve . 
I take't ’tis later ,  sir . 	I think it’s later than that ,  sir . 
hold ,  take my sword . 	stop ,  take my sword . 
take thee that too . 	you take that ,  too . 
a heavy summons lies like lead upon me ,  And yet I would not sleep . 	a serious calling lies on me like lead ,  And still I couldn't sleep . 
merciful powers ,  Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature Gives way to in repose ! 	merciful powers ,  Hold me back from the cursed thoughts that nature Gives way to when we sleep ! 
give me my sword . 	give me my sword . 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
a friend . 	a friend . 
what ,  sir ,  not yet at rest ? 	what ,  sir ,  not in bed yet ? 
the King's a - bed . 	the king's in bed . 
being unprepared ,  Our will became the servant to defect ,  Which else should free have wrought . 	being unprepared ,  Our wishes became the servants to what we lacked ,  Which has worked out very well . 
all's well . 	all's well . 
at your kind'st leisure . 	whenever you like . 
If you shall cleave to my consent ,  when ’tis ,  It shall make honor for you . 	If you agree with my opinion ,  when it is time ,  It’ll be more honor for you . 
good repose the while . 	good rest in the meantime ! 
go bid thy mistress ,  when my drink is ready ,  She strike upon the bell . 	go tell your mistress that ,  when my drink is ready ,  She should ring the bell . 
get thee to bed . 	get to bed . 
Is this a dagger which I see before me ,  The handle toward my hand ? 	Is this a dagger which I see before me ,  The handle pointed toward my hand ? 
come ,  let me clutch thee . 	come ,  let me clutch you . 
I have thee not ,  and yet I see thee still . 	I don’t hold you ,  and yet I still see you ! 
art thou not ,  fatal vision ,  sensible To feeling as to sight ? 	are you ,  fatal vision ,  as insensitive To feeling as you are to sight ? 
or art thou but A dagger of the mind ,  a false creation ,  Proceeding from the heat - oppressed brain ? 	or are you only A dagger of the mind ,  a false creation ,  Proceeding from the brain oppressed by heat ? 
I see thee yet ,  in form as palpable As this which now I draw . 	I still see you ,  in form as evident to my touch As the one I now draw . 
thou marshall'st me the way that I was going ,  And such an instrument I was to use . 	you guide me on the way that I was going ,  And show me the instrument I was to use . 
mine eyes are made the fools o’ the other senses ,  Or else worth all the rest . 	my eyes are made the fools of by the other senses ,  Or else my eyes are worth all the rest . 
I see thee still ,  And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood ,  Which was not so before . 	I still see you ,  And I see great ,  large clots of blood on your blade ,  Which were not there before . 
thou sure and firm - set earth ,  Hear not my steps ,  which way they walk ,  for fear Thy very stones prate of my whereabout ,  And take the present horror from the time ,  Which now suits with it . 	sure and firm - set earth ,  Don’t hear my steps ,  which ever way they walk ,  for fear Your very stones disclose my whereabouts ,  And take the current horror from the time ,  Which now suits it . 
whiles I threat ,  he lives; Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives . 	while I threaten ,  he lives; Words give breath to the heat of deeds that are too cold . 
I go ,  and it is done: the bell invites me . 	I go ,  and it’s done; the bell invites me . 
hear it not ,  Duncan ,  for it is a knell That summons thee to heaven ,  or to hell . 	don’t hear it ,  Duncan ,  for it is a sorrowful omen of death That summons you to heaven or to hell . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
peace ! 	peace ! 
It was the owl that shriek'd ,  the fatal bellman ,  Which gives the stern'st good - night . 	It was the owl that shrieked ,  the fatal bellman ,  That gives even the worst dispositions a good night . 
he is about it: The doors are open ,  and the surfeited grooms Do mock their charge with snores: I have drugg'd their possets ,  That death and nature do contend about them ,  Whether they live or die . 	the doors are open; and the grooms ,  filled to excess ,  Defy their duty with snores . 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  hello ! 
the attempt and not the deed Confounds us . 	the attempt ,  and not the deed ,  Confuses us . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
had he not resembled My father as he slept ,  I had done't . 	If the King hadn’t resembled My father as he slept ,  I would’ve done it . 
my husband ! 	my husband ! 
I have done the deed . 	I have done the deed . 
didst thou not hear a noise ? 	didn’t you hear a noise ? 
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry . 	I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry . 
did not you speak ? 	didn’t you speak ? 
when ? 	when ? 
now . 	now . 
as I descended ? 	as I came down ? 
ay . 	yes . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
who lies i’ the second chamber ? 	who’s in the second chamber ? 
donalbain . 	donalbain . 
this is a sorry sight . 	this is a sorry sight . 
there are two lodged together . 	there are two in the same room . 
but wherefore could not I pronounce  “ Amen ”  ? 	only why couldn’t I say ,   " Amen "  ? 
I had most need of blessing ,  and  “ Amen ”  Stuck in my throat . 	I really needed blessing ,  and the  " Amen "  Stuck in my throat . 
me thought I heard a voice cry  “ Sleep no more ! 	I heard a voice cry ,   " Sleep no more ! 
why ,  worthy Thane ,  You do unbend your noble strength ,  to think So brainsickly of things . 	why ,  worthy baron ,  You weaken your noble strength to think About things in such a crazy way . 
go ,  get some water And wash this filthy witness from your hand . 	go get some water ,  And wash this filthy witness from your hands . 
why did you bring these daggers from the place ? 	why did you bring these daggers from the room ? 
they must lie there . 	they must lie there . 
go carry them ,  and smear The sleepy grooms with blood . 	go carry them ,  and smear The sleepy guards with blood . 
Infirm of purpose ! 	weak of purpose ! 
give me the daggers . 	give me the daggers . 
If he do bleed ,  I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal ,  For it must seem their guilt . 	If he bleeds ,  I'll smear the faces of the grooms with it ,  Because it must seem that they are guilty . 
whence is that knocking ? 	who is that knocking ? 
how is't with me ,  when every noise appals me ? 	what’s wrong with me ,  that every noise makes me jump ? 
what hands are here ? 	what kind of hands are these ? 
ha ,  they pluck out mine eyes ! 	ha ,  they pluck out my eyes ! 
will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand ? 	will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand ? 
no ,  this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas incarnadine ,  Making the green one red . 	no ,  my hand will rather Redden the many seas ,  Making the green one red . 
my hands are of your color ,  but I shame To wear a heart so white . 	my hands are the same color as yours ,  only I would be ashamed To have such a white heart . 
retire we to our chamber . 	let’s go to our bedroom . 
your constancy Hath left you unattended . 	your fortitude Has left you alone . 
knock Knock Hark ! 	listen ,  more knocking . 
more knocking: Get on your nightgown ,  lest occasion call us And show us to be watchers . 	get on your nightgown ,  in case we are called by chance And it shows us to be watchers . 
be not lost So poorly in your thoughts . 	don’t be lost So badly in your thoughts . 
to know my deed ,  ’twere best not know myself . 	to know my deed ,  it’s best not know myself . 
I would thou couldst ! 	I wish you could ! 
here's a knocking indeed ! 	here's loud knocking indeed ! 
If a man were porter of hell - gate ,  he should have old turning the key . 	If a man were answering the doors of hell ,  he would grow old turning the key . 
knock Knock Knock ,  knock ,  knock ,  knock ! 	knock ,  knock ,  knock . 
who's there ,  i’ the name of Belzebub ? 	who's there ,  in the name of the Devil ? 
here's a farmer that hanged himself on th’ expectation of plenty . 	It must be a farmer that hanged himself on the expectation of a large crop . 
knock Knock Knock ,  knock ! 	knock ,  knock ! 
who's there ,  in th’ other devil's name ? 	who's there ,  in the other devil's name ? 
faith ,  here's an equivocator that could swear in both the scales against either scale ,  who committed treason enough for God's sake ,  yet could not equivocate to heaven . 	truly ,  it must be a liar who could swear on both sides of the scale against either side ,  who committed treason enough for God's sake ,  yet couldn’t lie to heaven . 
o ,  come in ,  equivocator . 	o ,  come in ,  liar . 
knock Knock Knock ,  knock ,  knock ! 	knock ,  knock ,  knock ! 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
faith ,  here's an English tailor come hither ,  for stealing out of a French hose . 	truly ,  it must be an English tailor sent here for skimping on the fabric for a pair of a French hose . 
come in ,  tailor; here you may roast your goose . 	come in ,  tailor; here you may roast your goose . 
knock Knock Knock ,  knock ! 	knock ,  knock . 
never at quiet ! 	never quiet ! 
what are you ? 	what are you ? 
but this place is too cold for hell . 	but this place is too cold for hell . 
I'll devil - porter it no further . 	I'll be a devil - porter no further . 
I had thought to have let in some of all professions ,  that go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire . 	I had thought to have let in some of all professions that go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire . 
knock Knock Anon ,  anon ! 	In a minute ,  in a minute ! 
I pray you ,  remember the porter . 	I beg you ,  remember the porter . 
was it so late ,  friend ,  ere you went to bed ,  That you do lie so late ? 	was it so late ,  friend ,  before you went to bed ,  That you overslept ? 
what three things does drink especially provoke ? 	what three things does drink especially instigate ? 
marry ,  sir ,  nose - painting ,  sleep ,  and urine . 	by Mary ,  sir ,  nose - painting ,  sleep ,  and urine . 
I believe drink gave thee the lie last night . 	I believe drink gave you the lie last night . 
that it did ,  sir ,  i’ the very throat on me: but I requited him for his lie ,  and ,  I think ,  being too strong for him ,  though he took up my legs sometime ,  yet I made a shift to cast him . 	that it did ,  sir ,  in the very throat of me; only I paid him back for his lie; and ,  I think ,  being too strong for him ,  though he knocked me off my feet a few times ,  I still made a joke to throw him off . 
Is thy master stirring ? 	Is your master awake yet ? 
good morrow ,  noble sir . 	good morning ,  noble sir ! 
good morrow ,  both . 	good morning to you both ! 
Is the King stirring ,  worthy Thane ? 	Is the king awake yet ,  worthy baron ? 
not yet . 	not yet . 
I'll bring you to him . 	I'll bring you to him . 
I know this is a joyful trouble to you; But yet ’tis one . 	I know this is a joyful trouble to you ,  It is still only one . 
the labor we delight in physics pain . 	the labor we delight in cures pain . 
this is the door . 	this is the door . 
I'll make so bold to call ,  For ’tis my limited service . 	I'll make so bold to call ,  Because it is my limited service . 
goes the King hence today ? 	does the king leave here today ? 
the night has been unruly . 	the night has been unruly . 
twas a rough night . 	It was a rough night . 
my young remembrance cannot parallel A fellow to it . 	I can’t remember there being another Like it . 
o horror ,  horror ,  horror ! 	o horror ,  horror ,  horror ! 
tongue nor heart Cannot conceive nor name thee . 	tongue nor heart Cannot comprehend or name you ! 
what's the matter ? 	what's the matter ? 
what's the matter ? 	what's the matter ? 
confusion now hath made his masterpiece . 	confusion has now made his masterpiece ! 
most sacrilegious Murder hath broke ope The Lord's anointed temple and stole thence The life o’ the building . 	most unholy murder has broken open The Lord's anointed temple ,  and then stolen The life of the building . 
what is't you say ? 	what are you saying ? 
the life ? 	the life ? 
mean you his Majesty ? 	mean you his majesty ? 
approach the chamber ,  and destroy your sight With a new Gorgon . 	approach the chamber ,  and destroy your sight With a new monster to turn you to stone . 
awake ,  awake ! 	awake ,  awake ! 
ring the alarum bell . 	ring the alarms bell . 
murder and treason ! 	murder and treason ! 
banquo and Donalbain ! 	banquo and Donalbain ! 
shake off this downy sleep ,  death's counterfeit ,  And look on death itself ! 	shake off this soft sleep ,  death's disguise ,  And look on death itself ! 
up ,  up ,  and see The great doom's image ! 	go up ,  go up ,  and see The great destruction's image ! 
malcolm ! 	malcolm ! 
banquo ! 	banquo ! 
as from your graves rise up ,  and walk like sprites ,  To countenance this horror ! 	rise up as you would from your graves ,  and walk like spirits To see this horror ! 
what's the business ,  That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley The sleepers of the house ? 	what's happened ,  That such a hideous trumpet calls to summon The sleepers of the house ? 
speak ,  speak ! 	speak ,  speak ! 
o Banquo ,  Banquo ! 	o Banquo ,  Banquo ! 
our royal master's murdered . 	our royal master's murdered ! 
woe ,  alas ! 	woe ,  alas ! 
what ,  in our house ? 	what ,  in our house ? 
too cruel any where . 	too cruel any where . 
dear Duff ,  I prithee ,  contradict thyself ,  And say it is not so . 	dear Duff ,  I beg you ,  contradict yourself ,  And say it is not so . 
what is amiss ? 	what’s wrong ? 
your royal father's murdered . 	your royal father's murdered . 
o ,  by whom ? 	o ,  by whom ? 
o ,  yet I do repent me of my fury ,  That I did kill them . 	o ,  I’m sorry I was so angry That I did kill them . 
wherefore did you so ? 	why did you it ? 
who can be wise ,  amazed ,  temperate and furious ,  Loyal and neutral ,  in a moment ? 	who can be wise ,  amazed ,  temperate ,  and furious ,  Loyal and neutral ,  in a moment ? 
who could refrain ,  That had a heart to love ,  and in that heart Courage to make's love known ? 	who could refrain ,  That had a heart to love ,  and in that heart Courage to make his love known ? 
help me hence ,  ho ! 	help me here ,  hello ! 
look to the lady . 	look to the lady . 
why do we hold our tongues ,  That most may claim this argument for ours ? 	why do we stop talking ,  That most may claim we did this ? 
what should be spoken here ,  where our fate ,  Hid in an auger - hole ,  may rush and seize us ? 	what should we say her ,  where our fate ,  Hidden in a very small carpenter’s hole ,  may rush up and seize us ? 
nor our strong sorrow [Aside to Donalbain . 	nor our strong sorrow Ready to be revealed . 
and so do I . 	and so do I . 
so all . 	so do we all . 
what will you do ? 	what will you do ? 
to Ireland ,  I; our separated fortune Shall keep us both the safer . 	our separate journeys Shall keep us both the safer . 
this murderous shaft that's shot Hath not yet lighted ,  and our safest way Is to avoid the aim . 	this murderous arrow that's been shot Has not yet hit its target ,  and our safest way Is to avoid the aim . 
therefore to horse; And let us not be dainty of leave - taking ,  But shift away . 	therefore ,  get to your horse ,  And let us not be too dainty in saying goodbye ,  But only sneak away . 
there's warrant in that theft Which steals itself when there's no mercy left . 	there’s protection in the theft That steals itself when there's no mercy left . 
ah ,  good father ,  Thou seest the heavens ,  as troubled with man's act ,  Threaten his bloody stage . 	ah ,  good father ,  You see the heavens ,  troubled with man's acting ,  Threaten his bloody stage . 
tis unnatural ,  Even like the deed that's done . 	It’s unnatural ,  Even like the deed that's been done . 
on Tuesday last A falcon towering in her pride of place Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd . 	on Tuesday last ,  A falcon ,  towering in her pride of place ,  Was hawked at and killed by an owl that usually eats mice . 
and Duncan's horses—a thing most strange and certain— Beauteous and swift ,  the minions of their race ,  Turn'd wild in nature ,  broke their stalls ,  flung out ,  Contending ’gainst obedience ,  as they would make War with mankind . 	and Duncan's horses ,  a thing most strange and certain ,  Beautiful and swift ,  the darlings of their race ,  Turned wild in nature ,  broke their stalls ,  flew out ,  Rebelling against obeying their masters ,  as if they would make War with mankind . 
tis said they eat each other . 	It is said they ate each other . 
they did so ,  to the amazement of mine eyes That look'd upon't . 	they did ,  to the amazement of my eyes ,  That saw it . 
here comes the good Macduff . 	here comes the good Macduff . 
how goes the world ,  sir ,  now ? 	how is the world going now ,  sir ? 
why ,  see you not ? 	why ,  don’t you see it ? 
Is't known who did this more than bloody deed ? 	Is it known who did this more than bloody deed ? 
those that Macbeth hath slain . 	those guards that Macbeth has slain . 
alas ,  the day ! 	alas ,  the day ! 
what good could they pretend ? 	what good could they claim ? 
gainst nature still ! 	also against nature . 
thriftless ambition ,  that wilt ravin up Thine own life's means ! 	thriftless ambition ,  that will plunder Your own life's means ! 
then ’tis most like The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth . 	then it is most likely that The crown will fall upon Macbeth . 
he is already named ,  and gone to Scone To be invested . 	he is already named King; and gone to Scone To be invested . 
where is Duncan's body ? 	where is Duncan's body ? 
carried to Colmekill ,  The sacred storehouse of his predecessors And guardian of their bones . 	carried to Colme creek ,  The sacred storehouse of his predecessors ,  And guardian of their bones . 
will you to Scone ? 	will you be going to Scone ? 
no ,  cousin ,  I'll to Fife . 	no ,  cousin ,  I'm going to Fife . 
well ,  I will thither . 	well ,  I’ll there . 
well ,  may you see things well done there ,  Adieu ,  Lest our old robes sit easier than our new ! 	well ,  I hope you see things are done well there ,  adieu ! 
farewell ,  father . 	farewell ,  father . 
god's benison go with you and with those That would make good of bad and friends of foes ! 	god's blessings go with you; and with those That would make a good situation out of a bad one and friends of foes ! 
If there come truth from them— As upon thee ,  Macbeth ,  their speeches shine— Why ,  by the verities on thee made good ,  May they not be my oracles as well And set me up in hope ? 	If they told the truth ,  As their speeches shine on you ,  Macbeth ,  Why ,  by the truths made good on you ,  Might they not be my prophecies as well ,  And set up my hopes ? 
but hush ,  no more . 	but I’ll be quiet; no more . 
here's our chief guest . 	here's our chief guest . 
If he had been forgotten ,  It had been as a gap in our great feast And all - thing unbecoming . 	If he had been forgotten ,  It would have been a gap in our great feast ,  And unbecoming to us . 
tonight we hold a solemn supper ,  sir ,  And I'll request your presence . 	tonight we host a solemn supper ,  sir ,  And I'll request your presence . 
let your Highness Command upon me ,  to the which my duties Are with a most indissoluble tie Forever knit . 	let your highness Command me ,  to whom my duties Are joined forever with a most unbreakable tie . 
ride you this afternoon ? 	are you going riding you this afternoon ? 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
we should have else desired your good advice ,  Which still hath been both grave and prosperous In this day's council; but we'll take tomorrow . 	we would have desired your good advice ,  Which still has been both serious and favorable ,  In this day's council ,  but we'll do it tomorrow . 
Is't far you ride ? 	are you riding far ? 
as far ,  my lord ,  as will fill up the time ’Twixt this and supper . 	as far ,  my lord ,  as will fill up the time between this meeting and supper . 
go not my horse the better ,  I must become a borrower of the night For a dark hour or twain . 	If my horse doesn’t ride better ,  I must become a borrower of the night ,  For a dark hour or two . 
fail not our feast . 	don’t forget to come to our feast . 
my lord ,  I will not . 	my lord ,  I won’t . 
we hear our bloody cousins are bestow'd In England and in Ireland ,  not confessing Their cruel parricide ,  filling their hearers With strange invention . 	we hear our bloody cousins are living In England and in Ireland ,  not confessing Their cruel murder of their father ,  only filling their hearers With strange lies . 
but of that tomorrow ,  When therewithal we shall have cause of state Craving us jointly . 	but more of that tomorrow ,  When together with that matter ,  we will have political issues That need us jointly . 
goes Fleance with you ? 	Is Fleance going with you ? 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
our time does call upon's . 	It’s time we were going . 
I wish your horses swift and sure of foot ,  And so I do commend you to their backs . 	I wish your horses are swift and sure of foot ,  And so go on for your ride . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
while then ,  God be with you ! 	until then ,  God be with you ! 
sirrah ,  a word with you . 	servant ,  a word with you . 
attend those men Our pleasure ? 	are those men Waiting for us ? 
they are ,  my lord ,  without the palace gate . 	they are ,  my lord ,  outside the palace gate . 
bring them before us . 	bring them before us . 
to be thus is nothing ,  But to be safely thus . 	to be king in this way is nothing ,  Only to be safely king in this way matters . 
our fears in Banquo Stick deep ,  and in his royalty of nature Reigns that which would be fear'd . 	our fears of Banquo Stick deep ,  and there’s a lot to be afraid of in the royalty of his nature . 
tis much he dares ,  And ,  to that dauntless temper of his mind ,  He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor To act in safety . 	he has the courage to do a lot ,  And ,  in that unconquerable temper of his mind ,  He has a wisdom that guides his courage To act in safety . 
If't be so ,  For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind ,  For them the gracious Duncan have I murdered ,  Put rancors in the vessel of my peace Only for them ,  and mine eternal jewel Given to the common enemy of man ,  To make them kings ,  the seed of Banquo kings ! 	If the prophecy is true ,  I have defiled my soul for Banquo's sons; I have murdered the gracious Duncan for them ,  Put doubts and bitter feelings into my mind Only for them ,  and I have given my soul To the common enemy of man ,  just To make them kings ,  the sons of Banquo kings ! 
rather than so ,  come ,  Fate ,  into the list ,  And champion me to the utterance ! 	rather than see that happen ,  come ,  Fate ,  into the arena ,  And fight for me to the death ! 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
now go to the door ,  and stay there till we call . 	now go to the door ,  and stay there until we call . 
was it not yesterday we spoke together ? 	wasn’t it yesterday we spoke together ? 
It was ,  so please your Highness . 	It was ,  so please your highness . 
well then ,  now Have you consider'd of my speeches ? 	well then ,  now . 
know That it was he ,  in the times past ,  which held you So under fortune ,  which you thought had been Our innocent self ? 	you know He was the one ,  in the times past ,  who held you back from promotion ,  and you thought it was our innocent self . 
I did so ,  and went further ,  which is now Our point of second meeting . 	I did so ,  and I went even further ,  which is now the point of our second meeting . 
do you find Your patience so predominant in your nature ,  That you can let this go ? 	are you so patient that you can let this go ? 
are you so gospell'd ,  To pray for this good man and for his issue ,  Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave And beggar'd yours for ever ? 	are you such believers in the gospel that you would pray for this good man and for his children ,  the same man whose heavy hand has led you to death ,  and made your families beggars ? 
we are men ,  my liege . 	we are men ,  my liege . 
ay ,  in the catalogue ye go for men ,  As hounds and greyhounds ,  mongrels ,  spaniels ,  curs ,  Shoughs ,  waterrugs ,  and demi - wolves are clept All by the name of dogs . 	yes ,  you certainly could pass for men ,  In the same way that hounds ,  and greyhounds ,  mongrels ,  spaniels ,  curs ,  Shoughs ,  water - rugs ,  and demi - wolves are All the names of dogs . 
I am one ,  my liege ,  Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world Have so incensed that I am reckless what I do to spite the world . 	I am one ,  my liege ,  Whom has been so angered by the vile blows and beatings of the world That I am reckless in what I would do to spite the world . 
and I another So weary with disasters ,  tugg'd with fortune ,  That I would set my life on any chance ,  To mend it or be rid on ’t . 	and I am another one ,  So weary with disasters ,  so unlucky ,  That I gamble my life on any chance I can get ,  Either to make it better or end it . 
both of you Know Banquo was your enemy . 	both of you Know Banquo was your enemy . 
true ,  my lord . 	true ,  my lord . 
so is he mine ,  and in such bloody distance That every minute of his being thrusts Against my near'st of life: and though I could With barefaced power sweep him from my sight And bid my will avouch it ,  yet I must not ,  For certain friends that are both his and mine ,  Whose loves I may not drop ,  but wail his fall Who I myself struck down . 	and he’s mine too ,  and to a such bloody degree ,  That every minute of his being puts A big knot in my stomach; and though I could Sweep him from my sight with barefaced power ,  And bid my will guarantee it ,  I can’t do it ,  Because certain friends that are both his and mine ,  Whose loves I may not lose ,  would only protest his fall Who I myself struck down . 
and thence it is That I to your assistance do make love ,  Masking the business from the common eye For sundry weighty reasons . 	and so it is That I ask see your assistance . 
we shall ,  my lord ,  Perform what you command us . 	we shall ,  my lord ,  Perform what you command us . 
though our lives— Your spirits shine through you . 	though our lives — Your spirits shine through you . 
resolve yourselves apart: I'll come to you anon . 	I'll come to you in a minute . 
we are resolved ,  my lord . 	we are resolved ,  my lord . 
I'll call upon you straight . 	I'll call upon you in a minute . 
abide within . 	stay within . 
It is concluded: Banquo ,  thy soul's flight ,  If it find heaven ,  must find it out tonight . 	banquo ,  your soul's flight ,  If it finds heaven ,  must find it tonight . 
Is Banquo gone from court ? 	has Banquo gone from court ? 
ay ,  madam ,  but returns again tonight . 	yes ,  madam ,  only to return again tonight . 
say to the King I would attend his leisure For a few words . 	tell the king that I wish to speak with him ,  For a few words . 
madam ,  I will . 	madam ,  I will . 
nought's had ,  all's spent ,  Where our desire is got without content . 	nothing’s ours ,  all's been spent ,  Where we got what we wanted ,  but without content . 
tis safer to be that which we destroy Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy . 	It is safer to be what we destroy ,  Rather than ,  by destruction ,  live in uncertain joy . 
how now ,  my lord ! 	how are you ,  my lord ! 
why do you keep alone ,  Of sorriest fancies your companions making ,  Using those thoughts which should indeed have died With them they think on ? 	why do you keep to yourself ,  Making the worst imaginings your companions ,  Thinking those thoughts which should indeed have died With the dead ones you’re thinking about ? 
things without all remedy Should be without regard . 	problems with no solutions Should not be thought about . 
what's done is done . 	what’s done is done . 
but let the frame of things disjoint ,  both the worlds suffer ,  Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep In the affliction of these terrible dreams That shake us nightly . 	only let the order of the universe be disrupted ,  Both the real and spiritual worlds suffer ,  Before we will eat our meal in fear ,  and sleep In the affliction of these terrible dreams That wake us up nightly . 
better be with the dead ,  Whom we ,  to gain our peace ,  have sent to peace ,  Than on the torture of the mind to lie In restless ecstasy . 	It’s better to be with the dead ,  Whom we have sent to their peace to gain our peace ,  Than to lie on a bed ,  torturing of the mind In a restless frenzy . 
come on ,  Gentle my lord ,  sleek o'er your rugged looks; Be bright and jovial among your guests tonight . 	be bright and jovial among your guests tonight . 
you must leave this . 	you must stop this . 
o ,  full of scorpions is my mind ,  dear wife ! 	o ,  my mind is full of scorpions ,  dear wife ! 
thou know'st that Banquo and his Fleance lives . 	you know that Banquo and his son ,  Fleance ,  live . 
but in them nature's copy's not eterne . 	only in them ,  nature's copy is not eternal . 
there's comfort yet; they are assailable . 	there's comfort in that . 
then be thou jocund . 	then ,  you be happy . 
ere the bat hath flown His cloister'd flight; ere to black Hecate's summons The shard - borne beetle with his drowsy hums Hath rung night's yawning peal ,  there shall be done A deed of dreadful note . 	before the bat has flown His hidden flight ,  before black Hecate's summons are heard ,  Before the dung beetle ,  with his drowsy hums ,  Rings the bell to end the night ,  there shall be done A deed of dreadful note . 
what's to be done ? 	what's to be done ? 
be innocent of the knowledge ,  dearest chuck ,  Till thou applaud the deed . 	I don’t want you to know ,  dearest sweetheart ,  Until you can applaud the deed . 
come ,  seeling night ,  Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day ,  And with thy bloody and invisible hand Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond Which keeps me pale ! 	come ,  night that closes the eyes ,  Cover the tender eye of pitiful day; And ,  with your bloody and invisible hand ,  Cancel and tear to pieces that great deed Which keeps me pale ! 
thou marvell'st at my words ,  but hold thee still: Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill . 	things that are bad make strong themselves by ill . 
so ,  prithee ,  go with me . 	so ,  I beg you ,  go with me . 
but who did bid thee join with us ? 	but who asked you to join us ? 
macbeth . 	macbeth . 
he needs not our mistrust ,  since he delivers Our offices and what we have to do ,  To the direction just . 	he doesn’t need our mistrust; since he tells us Our duties and the directions for what we have to do . 
then stand with us . 	then stand with us . 
the west yet glimmers with some streaks of day; Now spurs the lated traveller apace To gain the timely inn ,  and near approaches The subject of our watch . 	there are still some streaks of day in the west . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
I hear horses . 	I hear horses . 
give us a light there ,  ho ! 	give us a light there ,  hello ! 
then ’tis he: the rest That are within the note of expectation Already are i’ the court . 	then it is he; the rest That are nobles Are already in the court . 
his horses go about . 	he is cooling off his horses . 
a light ,  a light ! 	a light ,  a light ! 
tis he . 	It is he . 
stand to't . 	let’s do it . 
It will be rain tonight . 	there will be rain tonight . 
let it come down . 	let it come down . 
o ,  treachery ! 	o ,  treachery ! 
fly ,  good Fleance ,  fly ,  fly ,  fly ! 	fly ,  good Fleance ,  fly ,  fly ,  fly ! 
thou mayst revenge . 	you’ll get revenge later . 
o slave ! 	o slave ! 
who did strike out the light ? 	who put out the light ? 
we have lost best half of our affair . 	we have lost best half of our attack . 
well ,  let's away and say how much is done . 	well ,  let's go ,  and tell Macbeth how much we did . 
at first And last the hearty welcome . 	to the first And the last ,  a hearty welcome . 
thanks to your Majesty . 	thank you ,  your majesty . 
ourself will mingle with society And play the humble host . 	we will mingle with these people ,  And play the humble host . 
our hostess keeps her state ,  but in best time We will require her welcome . 	our hostess sits in her chair of state ,  but ,  when it’s time ,  We will require her welcome . 
pronounce it for me ,  sir ,  to all our friends ,  For my heart speaks they are welcome . 	say it for me ,  sir ,  to all our friends ,  For my heart says they are welcome . 
see ,  they encounter thee with their hearts’ thanks . 	see ,  they greet you with their hearts' thanks . 
there's blood upon thy face . 	there's blood upon your face . 
tis Banquo's then . 	then it’s Banquo's . 
tis better thee without than he within . 	It is better with you out here than he inside the hall . 
Is he dispatch'd ? 	Is he dead ? 
If thou didst it ,  Thou art the nonpareil . 	If you did it ,  You are without equal . 
most royal sir ,  Fleance is 'scaped . 	most royal sir ,  Fleance escaped . 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
thanks for that . 	thanks for that . 
there the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled Hath nature that in time will venom breed ,  No teeth for the present . 	there the grown serpent lies; the worm that has fled Has a nature that in time will breed venom ,  But he has no fangs now . 
get thee gone . 	get going . 
tomorrow We'll hear ourselves again . 	tomorrow We'll speak among ourselves ,  again . 
my royal lord ,  You do not give the cheer . 	my royal lord ,  You don’t give the toast . 
the feast is sold That is not often vouch'd ,  while ’tis a - making ,  ’Tis given with welcome . 	a good dinner for guests is more like One that’s bought rather than given ,  if the host doesn’t make frequent toasts . 
to feed were best at home; From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony; Meeting were bare without it . 	with no toasts ,  you might as well stay home ,  because Away from home ,  ceremony is the sauce to meat ,  Getting together would be bare without it . 
sweet remembrancer ! 	sweet remembrancer ! 
now good digestion wait on appetite ,  And health on both ! 	now ,  may good digestion follow your appetites ,  And health on both ! 
may't please your Highness sit . 	may it please your highness ,  sit . 
rOSS: His absence ,  sir ,  Lays blame upon his promise . 	his absence ,  sir ,  Means he didn’t keep his promise . 
please't your Highness To grace us with your royal company ? 	will your highness Please grace us with your royal company ? 
the table's full . 	the table's full . 
here is a place reserved ,  sir . 	here is a place reserved ,  sir . 
where ? 	where ? 
here ,  my good lord . 	here ,  my good lord . 
what is't that moves your Highness ? 	what upsets you ,  your highness ? 
which of you have done this ? 	which one of you have done this ? 
what ,  my good lord ? 	done what ,  my good lord ? 
pray you ,  keep seat . 	I beg you ,  stay seated . 
the fit is momentary; upon a thought He will again be well . 	the fit is momentary; in a minute ,  He will again be well . 
are you a man ? 	are you a man ? 
ay ,  and a bold one ,  that dare look on that Which might appal the devil . 	yes ,  and a bold one ,  that has the courage to look on A sight which might shock the devil . 
o ,  these flaws and starts ,  Impostors to true fear ,  would well become A woman's story at a winter's fire ,  Authorized by her grandam . 	o ,  these outbursts and jerky shaking ,  Impostors of true fear ,  would well become A woman's story at a winter's fire ,  Confirmed by her grandmother . 
shame itself ! 	shame on you ! 
why do you make such faces ? 	why do you make such faces ? 
when all's done ,  You look but on a stool . 	when it’s all over ,  You only look at an empty stool . 
prithee ,  see there ! 	I beg you ,  see there ! 
behold ! 	behold ! 
look ! 	look ! 
lo ! 	lo ! 
how say you ? 	what do you say ? 
why ,  what care I ? 	why ,  what do I care ? 
If thou canst nod ,  speak too . 	If you can nod ,  speak too . 
If charnel houses and our graves must send Those that we bury back ,  our monuments Shall be the maws of kites . 	If mortuaries and our graves must send Those that we bury back ,  our tombs Shall be the stomachs of birds . 
fie ,  for shame ! 	for shame ,  for shame ! 
this is more strange Than such a murder is . 	this ghost is more strange Than such a murder is . 
my worthy lord ,  Your noble friends do lack you . 	my worthy lord ,  Your noble friends are missing you . 
I do forget . 	I forgot . 
do not muse at me ,  my most worthy friends . 	do not muse at me ,  my most worthy friends . 
I have a strange infirmity ,  which is nothing To those that know me . 	I have a strange infirmity ,  which is nothing To those that know me . 
come ,  love and health to all; Then I'll sit down . 	come ,  love and health to all; Then I'll sit down . 
give me some wine ,  fill full . 	give me some wine ,  fill my cup full . 
I drink to the general joy o’ the whole table ,  And to our dear friend Banquo ,  whom we miss . 	I drink to the general joy of the whole table ,  And to our dear friend Banquo ,  whom we miss . 
would he were here ! 	would he were here ! 
to all and him we thirst ,  And all to all . 	to all ,  and to him we miss ,  And all to all . 
avaunt ,  and quit my sight ! 	and get out of my sight ! 
let the earth hide thee ! 	let the earth hide you ! 
think of this ,  good peers ,  But as a thing of custom . 	think of this ,  good peers ,  Only as a common occurrence . 
what man dare ,  I dare . 	what man has courage to do ,  I have courage to do . 
or be alive again ,  And dare me to the desert with thy sword . 	or be alive again ,  And challenge me to fight you in the desert with your sword . 
If trembling I inhabit then ,  protest me The baby of a girl . 	If I have the habit of shaking ,  then proclaim that I am The doll of a girl . 
hence ,  horrible shadow ! 	here ,  horrible shadow ! 
unreal mockery ,  hence ! 	unreal mockery ,  here ! 
why ,  so: being gone ,  I am a man again . 	why ,  so; Since you’ve gone ,  I am a man again . 
pray you ,  sit still . 	I beg you ,  sit still . 
you have displaced the mirth ,  broke the good meeting ,  With most admired disorder . 	you have disrupted the fun ,  broken up a good party ,  With very admirable chaos . 
can such things be ,  And overcome us like a summer's cloud ,  Without our special wonder ? 	can such things be ,  that Can overcome us like a summer's cloud ,  Without puzzling us ? 
you make me strange Even to the disposition that I owe ,  When now I think you can behold such sights ,  And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks When mine is blanch'd with fear . 	you treat me like a stranger Unlike my usual self ,  When I wonder now how you can behold such sights ,  And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks ,  When mine are blanched with fear . 
rOSS: What sights ,  my lord ? 	what sights ,  my lord ? 
at once ,  good night: Stand not upon the order of your going ,  But go at once . 	only go at once . 
good night ,  and better health Attend his Majesty ! 	good - night; and better health Attend his majesty ! 
a kind good night to all ! 	a kind good - night to all ! 
stones have been known to move and trees to speak; Augures and understood relations have By maggot pies and choughs and rooks brought forth The secret'st man of blood . 	stones have been known to move ,  and trees to speak . 
what is the night ? 	what time is it ? 
almost at odds with morning ,  which is which . 	almost the middle of the night . 
how say'st thou ,  that Macduff denies his person At our great bidding ? 	what do you think about Macduff’s refusing to be At our great bidding ? 
did you send to him ,  sir ? 	did you invite him ,  sir ? 
I hear it by the way ,  but I will send . 	I was told so ,  But I will send . 
there's not a one of them but in his house I keep a servant fee'd . 	there's not one of them ,  except for his house I don’t keep a bribed servant . 
I will tomorrow ,  And betimes I will ,  to the weird sisters . 	I will go tomorrow ,  (And I will go early in the morning) to the weird sisters . 
more shall they speak; for now I am bent to know ,  By the worst means ,  the worst . 	they shall speak more ,  for now I am determined to know The worst by the worst means . 
for mine own good All causes shall give way . 	for my own good ,  All other problems will have to wait . 
I am in blood Stepp'd in so far that ,  should I wade no more ,  Returning were as tedious as go o'er . 	I am now so far Stepped in blood that ,  if I don’t wade in it any more ,  It doesn’t matter if I am getting out of it or going over it . 
strange things I have in head that will to hand ,  Which must be acted ere they may be scann'd . 	I have strange things in my head that need to be figured out ,  Which must be done quickly before others look at them closely . 
you lack the season of all natures ,  sleep . 	you need to sleep . 
come ,  we'll to sleep . 	come ,  we'll get some sleep . 
we are yet but young in deed . 	we are still only youngsters in what we’re doing . 
why ,  how now ,  Hecate ? 	why ,  how are you ,  Hecate ? 
you look angerly . 	you look angry . 
have I not reason ,  beldams as you are ,  Saucy and overbold ? 	don’t I have reason ,  hags that you are ,  Impudent and overbold ? 
how did you dare To trade and traffic with Macbeth In riddles and affairs of death; And I ,  the mistress of your charms ,  The close contriver of all harms ,  Was never call'd to bear my part ,  Or show the glory of our art ? 	how dare you Trade and traffic with Macbeth In riddles and affairs of death; And I ,  the mistress of your charms ,  The secret contriver of all harms ,  Was never called to offer my part ,  Or show the glory of our art ? 
and ,  which is worse ,  all you have done Hath been but for a wayward son ,  Spiteful and wrathful: who ,  as others do ,  Loves for his own ends ,  not for you . 	and ,  which is worse ,  all you have done Has been only for a wayward son ,  Spiteful and wrathful ,  who ,  as others do ,  Loves for his own ends ,  not for you . 
but make amends now . 	but you can make amends now . 
get you gone ,  And at the pit of Acheron Meet me i’ the morning . 	get going ,  And ,  at the sunken place by the river Acheron ,  Meet me in the morning . 
thither he Will come to know his destiny . 	there he Will come to know his destiny . 
your vessels and your spells provide ,  Your charms and every thing beside . 	provide your vessels and your spells ,  Your charms ,  and everything else beside . 
and that distill'd by magic sleights Shall raise such artificial sprites As by the strength of their illusion Shall draw him on to his confusion . 	and that drop ,  distilled by magic tricks ,  Shall raise such unnatural spirits ,  That ,  by the strength of their deception ,  Shall add to his confusion . 
he shall spurn fate ,  scorn death ,  and bear His hopes ’bove wisdom ,  grace ,  and fear . 	he shall spurn fate ,  scorn death ,  and bear His hopes above wisdom ,  grace ,  and fear . 
and you all know security Is mortals’ chiefest enemy . 	and you all know ,  security Is the major enemy of humans . 
music ,  and a song Music ,  and a song Hark ! 	listen ! 
and the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late ,  Whom ,  you may say ,  if't please you ,  Fleance kill'd ,  For Fleance fled . 	and the right valiant Banquo was out too late ,  Whom ,  you may say ,  if it please you ,  was killed by Fleance ,  Because Fleance fled . 
men must not walk too late . 	men must not walk too late . 
who cannot want the thought ,  how monstrous It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain To kill their gracious father ? 	who cannot think how monstrous It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain To kill their gracious father ? 
damned fact ! 	damned fact ! 
how it did grieve Macbeth ! 	how it grieved Macbeth ! 
did he not straight ,  In pious rage ,  the two delinquents tear ,  That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep ? 	didn’t he ,  right away ,  In pious rage ,  kill the two delinquents That were the slaves of drink and in the thralls of sleep ? 
was not that nobly done ? 	wasn’t that nobly done ? 
ay ,  and wisely too ,  For ’twould have anger'd any heart alive To hear the men deny't . 	yes ,  and wisely too; Because it would have angered any heart alive ,  To hear the men deny it . 
so that ,  I say ,  He has borne all things well; and I do think That ,  had he Duncan's sons under his key— As ,  an't please heaven ,  he shall not—they should find What ’twere to kill a father; so should Fleance . 	so I say ,  He has put up with all things well ,  and I think That ,  if he had Duncan's sons in his prison ,  As ,  if it please heaven ,  he shall not ,  they should find What it meant to kill a father . 
but ,  peace ! 	only ,  peace ! 
for from broad words ,  and ’cause he fail'd His presence at the tyrant's feast ,  I hear ,  Macduff lives in disgrace . 	because from his bold words ,  and because he didn’t Go to the tyrant's feast ,  I hear ,  Macduff lives in disgrace . 
sir ,  can you tell Where he bestows himself ? 	sir ,  can you tell Where he is ? 
the son of Duncan ,  From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth ,  Lives in the English court and is received Of the most pious Edward with such grace That the malevolence of fortune nothing Takes from his high respect . 	malcolm ,  Duncan’s son ,  From whom Macbeth withholds his birthright ,  Lives in the English court and is received By the most pious King Edward with such grace That the evil twist of fate takes nothing From his high respect . 
and this report Hath so exasperate the King that he Prepares for some attempt of war . 	and this report Has so exasperated the king that he Prepares for some attempt of war . 
sent he to Macduff ? 	did he ask Macduff ? 
some holy angel Fly to the court of England and unfold His message ere he come ,  that a swift blessing May soon return to this our suffering country Under a hand accursed ! 	some holy angel Fly to the court of England ,  and unfold His message before he comes so that a swift blessing May soon return to our country that suffers Under a cursed hand ! 
I'll send my prayers with him . 	I'll send my prayers with him . 
thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd . 	the cat with the streaked fur has meowed three times . 
thrice and once the hedge - pig whined . 	three times ,  and the hedgehog whined once . 
toad ,  that under cold stone Days and nights has thirty - one Swelter'd venom sleeping got ,  Boil thou first i’ the charmed pot . 	toad ,  that has spent Thirty one days and nights under cold stone ,  From whose sweat a sleeping venom was gotten ,  Boil you first in the charmed pot ! 
double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; Fire burn and cauldron bubble . 	double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; Fire ,  burn; and caldron ,  bubble . 
fillet of a fenny snake ,  In the cauldron boil and bake; Eye of newt and toe of frog ,  Wool of bat and tongue of dog ,  Adder's fork and blind - worm's sting ,  Lizard's leg and howlet's wing ,  For a charm of powerful trouble ,  Like a hell - broth boil and bubble . 	fillet of a snake that lived in a bog ,  In the caldron boil and bake; Eye of newt ,  and toe of frog ,  Wool of bat ,  and tongue of dog ,  A black snake’s forked tongue ,  and its cousin’s sting ,  Lizard's leg ,  and owlet's wing ,  For a charm of powerful trouble ,  Like a hell - broth ,  boil and bubble . 
double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; Fire burn and cauldron bubble . 	double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; Fire ,  burn; and caldron ,  bubble . 
scale of dragon ,  tooth of wolf ,  Witch's mummy ,  maw and gulf Of the ravin'd salt - sea shark ,  Root of hemlock digg'd i’ the dark ,  Liver of blaspheming Jew ,  Gall of goat and slips of yew Sliver'd in the moon's eclipse ,  Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips ,  Finger of birth - strangled babe Ditch - deliver'd by a drab ,  Make the gruel thick and slab . 	scale of dragon ,  tooth of wolf ,  Witch's mummy ,  a gulf - like stomach ,  Of the rough sea salt glisten ,  Root of poison hemlock dug up in the dark ,  Liver of Christians not baptized ,  Gall bladder of goat ,  and slips of pine trees Cut off the tree when the moon eclipsed ,  Nose of Turk ,  and Tartar's lips ,  Finger of a baby born dead Delivered in a ditch by a prostitute ,  Make the gruel thick and gooey . 
add thereto a tiger's chaudron ,  For the ingredients of our cauldron . 	also add a tiger's guts ,  For the ingredients of our caldron . 
double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; Fire burn and cauldron bubble . 	double ,  double ,  toil and trouble; Fire ,  burn; and caldron ,  bubble . 
cool it with a baboon's blood ,  Then the charm is firm and good . 	cool it with a baboon's blood ,  Then the charm is firm and good . 
o ,  well done ! 	o ,  well done ! 
how now ,  you secret ,  black ,  and midnight hags ? 	how now ,  you secret ,  black ,  and midnight hags ! 
what is't you do ? 	what are you doing ? 
a deed without a name . 	a deed without a name . 
I conjure you ,  by that which you profess ,  Howe'er you come to know it ,  answer me: Though you untie the winds and let them fight Against the churches ,  though the yeasty waves Confound and swallow navigation up ,  Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down ,  Though castles topple on their warders’ heads ,  Though palaces and pyramids do slope Their heads to their foundations ,  though the treasure Of nature's germens tumble all together Even till destruction sicken ,  answer me To what I ask you . 	though you untie the winds ,  and let them fight Against the churches ,  though the roaring waves Confuse sailors and sink ships ,  Though corn on the cob be torn from its stalks ,  and trees blown down ,  Though castles topple on their guards' heads ,  Though palaces and pyramids bend Their heads to their foundations ,  though the treasure Of nature's buds tumble all together ,  Even until destruction makes everything sick ,  answer The questions I ask you . 
speak . 	speak . 
demand . 	demand . 
we'll answer . 	we'll answer . 
say ,  if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths ,  or from our masters ? 	say ,  if you would rather hear it from our mouths ,  Or from our masters’ ? 
pour in sow's blood that hath eaten Her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten From the murderer's gibbet throw Into the flame . 	pour in the blood of a female pig that has eaten Her nine piglets ,  and throw it into the flame With fat that has dripped From a murderer's gallows . 
come ,  high or low; Thyself and office deftly show ! 	come ,  high or low; Yourself and duties skillfully show ! 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
beware Macduff; Beware the Thane of Fife . 	beware Macduff; Beware the Baron of Fife . 
dismiss me . 	send me away . 
enough . 	enough . 
whate'er thou art ,  for thy good caution ,  thanks; Thou hast harp'd my fear aright . 	whatever you are ,  for your good warning ,  thanks; You have helped my fear with your music . 
here's another ,  More potent than the first . 	here’s another ,  More potent than the first . 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
macbeth ! 	macbeth ! 
had I three ears ,  I'd hear thee . 	If I had three ears ,  I'd still hear you . 
what need I fear of thee ? 	why should I be afraid of you ? 
what is this ,  That rises like the issue of a king ,  And wears upon his baby brow the round And top of sovereignty ? 	what is this That rises like the heirs of a king ,  And wears upon his baby brow the Golden crown of a king ? 
listen ,  but speak not to't . 	listen ,  but don’t speak to it . 
that will never be . 	that will never be . 
who can impress the forest ,  bid the tree Unfix his earth - bound root ? 	who can move the forest ,  bid the tree To walk away from his earth - bound root ? 
sweet bodements ,  good ! 	sweet predictions ,  good ! 
rebellion's head ,  rise never ,  till the Wood Of Birnam rise ,  and our high - placed Macbeth Shall live the lease of nature ,  pay his breath To time and mortal custom . 	rebellion's head will never rise until the wood Of Birnam rise ,  and our high - placed Macbeth Shall live until his dying day ,  the death of His own time and mortal custom . 
seek to know no more . 	do not ask to know any more . 
I will be satisfied ! 	I will be satisfied or shamed . 
deny me this ,  And an eternal curse fall on you ! 	deny me this ,  And an eternal curse fall on you ! 
show ! 	show ! 
show ! 	show ! 
thou are too like the spirit of Banquo . 	you are too like the spirit of Banquo . 
down ! 	down ! 
thy crown does sear mine eyeballs . 	your crown burns my eyeballs . 
filthy hags ! 	filthy hags ! 
why do you show me this ? 	why do you show me this ? 
a fourth ! 	a fourth ! 
start ,  eyes ! 	come out of your sockets ,  eyes ! 
what ,  will the line stretch out to the crack of doom ? 	what ,  will the line stretch out to the crack of doom ? 
another yet ! 	another yet ! 
a seventh ! 	a seventh ! 
now I see ’tis true; For the blood - bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me ,  And points at them for his . 	now I see it is true ,  Because Banquo ,  with his hair matted with blood smiles upon me ,  And points at them for his . 
ay ,  sir ,  all this is so . 	yes ,  sir ,  all this is so . 
but why Stands Macbeth thus amazedly ? 	only why Stands Macbeth in this way amazedly ? 
come ,  sisters ,  cheer we up his sprites ,  And show the best of our delights . 	come ,  sisters ,  let’s cheer him up ,  And show him the best of our delights . 
I'll charm the air to give a sound ,  While you perform your antic round ,  That this great King may kindly say Our duties did his welcome pay . 	I'll charm the air to give a sound ,  While you perform your antic round; That this great king may kindly say ,  Our duties did his welcome pay . 
where are they ? 	where are they ? 
gone ? 	gone ? 
let this pernicious hour Stand aye accursed in the calendar ! 	let this evil hour Stand forever cursed in the calendar ! 
come in ,  without there ! 	come in ,  who ever is out there ! 
what's your Grace's will ? 	what's your grace's will ? 
saw you the weird sisters ? 	did you see the weird sisters ? 
no ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
came they not by you ? 	they didn’t come by you ? 
no indeed ,  my lord . 	no indeed ,  my lord . 
Infected be the air whereon they ride ,  And damn'd all those that trust them ! 	let the air they ride on be infected And let all those that trust them be damned ! 
I did hear The galloping of horse . 	I heard The galloping of horse . 
who was't came by ? 	who was it that came by ? 
tis two or three ,  my lord ,  that bring you word Macduff is fled to England . 	It is two or three ,  my lord ,  that bring you word Macduff is fled to England . 
fled to England ? 	fled to England ! 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
time ,  thou anticipatest my dread exploits . 	time ,  you anticipate my dread deeds . 
time ,  thou The flighty purpose never is o'ertook Unless the deed go with it . 	the flighty purpose never is understood Unless the deed goes with it . 
from this moment The very firstlings of my heart shall be The firstlings of my hand . 	from this moment The very first wishes of my heart shall be The firs actions of my hand . 
no boasting like a fool; This deed I'll do before this purpose cool . 	no boasting like a fool ,  This deed I'll do before I change my mind . 
come ,  bring me where they are . 	come ,  bring me to where they are . 
what had he done ,  to make him fly the land ? 	what had he done to make him fly the land ? 
you must have patience ,  madam . 	you must have patience ,  madam . 
when our actions do not ,  Our fears do make us traitors . 	when our actions do not make us traitors ,  Our fears do . 
you know not Whether it was his wisdom or his fear . 	you don’t know Whether it was his wisdom or his fear . 
wisdom ? 	wisdom ! 
to leave his wife ,  to leave his babes ,  His mansion ,  and his titles ,  in a place From whence himself does fly ? 	to leave his wife ,  to leave his babes ,  His mansion ,  and his titles ,  in a place That he himself flies from ? 
my dearest coz ,  I pray you ,  school yourself . 	my dearest cousin ,  I beg you ,  have patience yourself . 
but for your husband ,  He is noble ,  wise ,  judicious ,  and best knows The fits o’ the season . 	your husband ,  Is noble ,  wise ,  judicious ,  and best knows What to do in these times . 
things at the worst will cease ,  or else climb upward To what they were before . 	things at the worst will cease ,  or else return To the way they were before . 
my pretty cousin ,  Blessing upon you ! 	my pretty cousin ,  Blessing upon you ! 
father'd he is ,  and yet he's fatherless . 	he has a father ,  and yet he's fatherless . 
I am so much a fool ,  should I stay longer ,  It would be my disgrace and your discomfort . 	I am so much a fool ,  that if I stayed longer ,  It would be my disgrace and your discomfort . 
I take my leave at once . 	I leave you at once . 
how will you live ? 	how will you live ? 
as birds do ,  Mother . 	as birds do ,  mother . 
what ,  with worms and flies ? 	what ,  with worms and flies ? 
with what I get ,  I mean; and so do they . 	with what I get ,  I mean ,  as they do . 
poor bird ! 	poor bird ! 
thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime ,  The pitfall nor the gin . 	you would never fear being caught or dying ,  The mistakes nor the tricks . 
why should I ,  Mother ? 	why should I ,  mother ? 
poor birds they are not set for . 	poor birds do not fall down . 
my father is not dead ,  for all your saying . 	my father is not dead ,  is all you’re saying . 
yes ,  he is dead . 	yes ,  he is dead . 
how wilt thou do for a father ? 	how will you do for a father ? 
nay ,  how will you do for a husband ? 	no ,  how will you do for a husband ? 
why ,  I can buy me twenty at any market . 	why ,  I can buy me twenty at any market . 
then you'll buy ’em to sell again . 	then you'll buy them to sell again . 
thou speak'st with all thy wit ,  and yet ,  i’ faith ,  With wit enough for thee . 	you speak with all your wit ,  and yet ,  in faith ,  With wit enough for you . 
was my father a traitor ,  Mother ? 	was my father a traitor ,  mother ? 
ay ,  that he was . 	yes ,  that he was . 
what is a traitor ? 	what is a traitor ? 
why ,  one that swears and lies . 	why ,  one that swears and lies . 
and be all traitors that do so ? 	and are all traitors like that ? 
everyone that does so is a traitor and must be hanged . 	everyone that does so is a traitor and must be hanged . 
and must they all be hanged that swear and lie ? 	and must they all be hanged that swear and lie ? 
every one . 	every one . 
who must hang them ? 	who must hang them ? 
why ,  the honest men . 	why ,  the honest men . 
then the liars and swearers are fools; for there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them . 	then the liars and swearers are fools ,  because there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them . 
now ,  God help thee ,  poor monkey ! 	now ,  God help you ,  poor monkey ! 
but how wilt thou do for a father ? 	only how will you do for a father ? 
poor prattler ,  how thou talk'st ! 	poor prattler ,  how you talk ! 
bless you ,  fair dame ! 	bless you ,  beautiful dame ! 
I am not to you known ,  Though ,  in your state of honor I am perfect . 	you don’t know me ,  But I know you though in your state of honor . 
I doubt some danger does approach you nearly . 	I know that some danger approaches you nearby . 
If you will take a homely man's advice ,  Be not found here; hence ,  with your little ones . 	If you will take a homely man's advice ,  Don’t be found here ,  here ,  with your little ones . 
heaven preserve you ! 	heaven preserve you ! 
I dare abide no longer . 	I cannot stay any longer . 
whither should I fly ? 	where should I fly ? 
I have done no harm . 	I have done no harm . 
but I remember now I am in this earthly world ,  where to do harm Is often laudable ,  to do good sometime Accounted dangerous folly . 	only I remember now that I am in this earthly world ,  where to do harm Is often praiseworthy ,  to do good sometime Is a dangerous mistake . 
where is your husband ? 	where is your husband ? 
I hope ,  in no place so unsanctified Where such as thou mayst find him . 	I hope ,  in no place so unsanctified or shamed as Where such as you may find him . 
he's a traitor . 	he's a traitor . 
thou liest ,  thou shag - ear'd villain ! 	you lie ,  you shag - haired villain ! 
what ,  you egg ! 	what ,  you egg ! 
young fry of treachery ! 	young child of treachery ! 
he has kill'd me ,  Mother . 	he has killed me ,  mother . 
run away ,  I pray you ! 	run away ,  I beg you ! 
let us seek out some desolate shade and there Weep our sad bosoms empty . 	let’s look for some desolate shade and there Cry our hearts out . 
let us rather Hold fast the mortal sword ,  and like good men Bestride our downfall'n birthdom . 	let us rather Stop the mortal sword quickly ,  and ,  like good men ,  Climb over our down - fallen country . 
each new morn New widows howl ,  new orphans cry ,  new sorrows Strike heaven on the face ,  that it resounds As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out Like syllable of dolor . 	each new morning ,  New widows howl ,  new orphans cry ,  new sorrows Strike heaven on the face so that it echoes As if it felt Scotland’s pain ,  and yelled out Like a sigh of sorrow . 
what you have spoke ,  it may be so perchance . 	what you have spoken may be so perhaps . 
this tyrant ,  whose sole name blisters our tongues ,  Was once thought honest . 	this tyrant ,  whose only name blisters our tongues ,  Was once thought honest . 
you have loved him well; He hath not touch'd you yet . 	you have loved him well; He hasn’t touched you yet . 
I am young ,  but something You may deserve of him through me ,  and wisdom To offer up a weak ,  poor ,  innocent lamb To appease an angry god . 	I am young ,  only something You may deserve of him through me ,  and wisdom To offer up a weak ,  poor ,  innocent lamb To appease an angry god . 
I am not treacherous . 	I am not treacherous . 
but Macbeth is . 	but Macbeth is . 
a good and virtuous nature may recoil In an imperial charge . 	a good and virtuous nature may recoil In an charge by a king . 
angels are bright still ,  though the brightest fell . 	angels are bright still ,  though the brightest fell . 
though all things foul would wear the brows of grace ,  Yet grace must still look so . 	though all things disgustingly filthy would look like grace ,  Yet grace must still look that way . 
I have lost my hopes . 	I have lost my hopes . 
perchance even there where I did find my doubts . 	perhaps even there ,  where I did find my doubts . 
why in that rawness left you wife and child ,  Those precious motives ,  those strong knots of love ,  Without leave - taking ? 	why did you leave wife and child in that rawness ,  Those precious motives ,  those strong knots of love ,  Without leave - taking ? 
I pray you ,  Let not my jealousies be your dishonors ,  But mine own safeties . 	I beg you ,  Don’t let my jealousies be your dishonors ,  Only my own safeties . 
you may be rightly just ,  Whatever I shall think . 	you may be rightly just ,  Whatever I shall think . 
bleed ,  bleed ,  poor country ! 	bleed ,  bleed ,  poor country ! 
great tyranny ,  lay thou thy basis sure ,  For goodness dare not check thee . 	great tyranny ,  lay your foundation solid ,  Because goodness dare not challenge you ! 
wear thou thy wrongs; The title is affeer'd . 	wear your wrongs ,  The title is settled . 
fare thee well ,  lord . 	fare you well ,  lord . 
I would not be the villain that thou think'st For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp And the rich East to boot . 	I do not wish to be the villain that you may think ,  For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp And the rich East to boot . 
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke; It weeps ,  it bleeds ,  and each new day a gash Is added to her wounds . 	I think our country sinks beneath the yoke; It weeps ,  it bleeds ,  and each new day ,  another gash Is added to her wounds . 
I think withal There would be hands uplifted in my right; And here from gracious England have I offer Of goodly thousands . 	I also think that There would be hands uplifted in my defense ,  And here ,  from gracious England ,  I have the offer Of goodly thousands . 
but for all this ,  When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head ,  Or wear it on my sword ,  yet my poor country Shall have more vices than it had before ,  More suffer and more sundry ways than ever ,  By him that shall succeed . 	only ,  for all this ,  When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head ,  Or wear it on my sword ,  my poor country Shall still have more vices than it had before ,  More suffer ,  and in more ways than ever before ,  By the man who shall succeed the king . 
what should he be ? 	who would that be ? 
It is myself I mean ,  in whom I know All the particulars of vice so grafted That ,  when they shall be open'd ,  black Macbeth Will seem as pure as snow ,  and the poor state Esteem him as a lamb ,  being compared With my confineless harms . 	It is myself ,  I mean ,  in whom I know All the particulars of vice are so grafted That ,  when they shall be opened ,  black Macbeth Will seem as pure as snow ,  and the poor state Will respect him as a lamb ,  being compared With my unlimited evils . 
not in the legions Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd In evils to top Macbeth . 	not in the legions Of horrid hell can come a devil more damned In evils to top Macbeth . 
I grant him bloody ,  Luxurious ,  avaricious ,  false ,  deceitful ,  Sudden ,  malicious ,  smacking of every sin That has a name . 	I will grant you he is bloody ,  Luxurious ,  avaricious ,  false ,  deceitful ,  Sudden ,  malicious ,  smacking of every sin That has a name . 
but there's no bottom ,  none ,  In my voluptuousness . 	only there's no bottom ,  none ,  In my own evils . 
your wives ,  your daughters ,  Your matrons ,  and your maids could not fill up The cistern of my lust ,  and my desire All continent impediments would o'erbear That did oppose my will . 	your wives ,  your daughters ,  Your matrons ,  and your maids ,  could not fill up The cistern of my lust ,  and my desire would overcome All international factions That did oppose my will . 
better Macbeth Than such an one to reign . 	better Macbeth Than such an one like me to reign over Scotland . 
but fear not yet To take upon you what is yours . 	only don’t be afraid To take upon you what is yours . 
you may Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty And yet seem cold ,  the time you may so hoodwink . 	you may Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty ,  And yet seem cold ,  the time you may so deceive . 
we have willing dames enough; there cannot be That vulture in you ,  to devour so many As will to greatness dedicate themselves ,  Finding it so inclined . 	we have willing dames enough ,  so there cannot be That vulture in you ,  to devour so many As will dedicate themselves to greatness ,  Finding greatness so inclined . 
with this there grows In my most ill - composed affection such A stanchless avarice that ,  were I King ,  I should cut off the nobles for their lands ,  Desire his jewels and this other's house ,  And my more - having would be as a sauce To make me hunger more ,  that I should forge Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal ,  Destroying them for wealth . 	with this there grows ,  In my most ill - composed affection ,  such A unbendable greed ,  that ,  if I were king ,  I should seize the nobles’ lands ,  Desire their jewels ,  and their houses ,  And my wanting to have more would be as a sauce To make me hunger more ,  that I should start Unfair quarrels against the good and loyal ,  Destroying them for wealth . 
this avarice Sticks deeper ,  grows with more pernicious root Than summer - seeming lust ,  and it hath been The sword of our slain kings . 	this sin of greediness Digs in deeper; grows with a more dangerous root Than summer - seeming lust; and it has been The sword of our slain kings . 
yet do not fear; Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will Of your mere own . 	still ,  don’t be afraid Scotland has harvests enough to satisfy you ,  Of your very own . 
all these are portable ,  With other graces weigh'd . 	all these are bearable ,  When weighed against other graces . 
but I have none . 	but I have none . 
the king - becoming graces ,  As justice ,  verity ,  temperance ,  stableness ,  Bounty ,  perseverance ,  mercy ,  lowliness ,  Devotion ,  patience ,  courage ,  fortitude ,  I have no relish of them ,  but abound In the division of each several crime ,  Acting it many ways . 	I have no knowledge Of the king - becoming graces ,  such as justice ,  verity ,  Temperance ,  stableness ,  bounty ,  perseverance ,  Mercy ,  lowliness ,  devotion ,  patience ,  courage ,  fortitude ,  But I only abound In the division of each several crime ,  Acting it many ways . 
nay ,  had I power ,  I should Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell ,  Uproar the universal peace ,  confound All unity on earth . 	no ,  if I had power ,  I should Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell ,  Disturb the universal peace ,  confuse All unity on earth . 
o Scotland ,  Scotland ! 	o Scotland ,  Scotland ! 
If such a one be fit to govern ,  speak . 	If there is any one fit to govern ,  speak . 
I am as I have spoken . 	I am as I have spoken . 
fit to govern ? 	fit to govern ! 
no ,  not to live . 	no ,  not to live ! 
thy royal father Was a most sainted king: the queen that bore thee ,  Oftener upon her knees than on her feet ,  Died every day she lived . 	your royal father Was a most sainted king ,  the queen that bore you ,  Oftener upon her knees than on her feet ,  Died every day she lived . 
fare thee well ! 	fare - you - well ! 
these evils thou repeat'st upon thyself Have banish'd me from Scotland . 	these evils you repeat upon yourself Have banished me from Scotland . 
o my breast ,  Thy hope ends here ! 	o my heart ,  Your hope ends here ! 
macduff ,  this noble passion ,  Child of integrity ,  hath from my soul Wiped the black scruples ,  reconciled my thoughts To thy good truth and honor . 	macduff ,  this noble passion ,  Child of integrity ,  has wiped the Black scruples from my soul ,  and reconciled my thoughts To your good truth and honor . 
devilish Macbeth By many of these trains hath sought to win me Into his power ,  and modest wisdom plucks me From over - credulous haste . 	devilish Macbeth Has sought to win me into his power By many of these thoughts ,  and modest wisdom keeps me From over - believing haste . 
but God above Deal between thee and me ! 	only God above Deal between you and me ! 
for even now I put myself to thy direction and Unspeak mine own detraction; here abjure The taints and blames I laid upon myself ,  For strangers to my nature . 	for even now I put myself to your direction ,  and Take back my own detraction of myself; here renounce The taints and blames I laid upon myself ,  As strangers to my nature . 
I am yet Unknown to woman ,  never was forsworn ,  Scarcely have coveted what was mine own ,  At no time broke my faith ,  would not betray The devil to his fellow ,  and delight No less in truth than life . 	I am still A virgin; I have never gone back on my word ,  Scarcely have wanted what was my own ,  At no time broke a promise ,  would not betray The devil to his fellow ,  and delight More in truth than life . 
my first false speaking Was this upon myself . 	my first lie ever Was these things I said about myself . 
what I am truly ,  Is thine and my poor country's to command: Whither indeed ,  before thy here - approach ,  Old Siward ,  with ten thousand warlike men ,  Already at a point ,  was setting forth . 	what I am ,  truly ,  Is your and my poor country's to command ,  Where ,  indeed ,  before you came here ,  Old Siward ,  with ten thousand warlike men Already at a point ,  was coming to . 
now we'll together ,  and the chance of goodness Be like our warranted quarrel ! 	now we'll fight together ,  and the chance of goodness Will like our necessary quarrel ! 
why are you silent ? 	why are you silent ? 
such welcome and unwelcome things at once ’Tis hard to reconcile . 	such welcome and unwelcome things at once Are hard to reconcile . 
well ,  more anon . 	well ,  more in a minute . 
comes the King forth ,  I pray you ? 	Is the king coming ,  I beg you ? 
I thank you ,  Doctor . 	I thank you ,  doctor . 
what's the disease he means ? 	what's the disease he means ? 
tis call'd the evil: A most miraculous work in this good King ,  Which often ,  since my here - remain in England ,  I have seen him do . 	It is called  “ the evil ,  ”  A most miraculous work in this good king ,  Which often ,  since my stay in England ,  I have seen him do . 
with this strange virtue He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy ,  And sundry blessings hang about his throne That speak him full of grace . 	with this strange virtue ,  He has a heavenly gift of prophecy ,  And various blessings hang about his throne ,  That say he is full of grace . 
see ,  who comes here ? 	see ,  who comes here ? 
my countryman: but yet I know him not . 	my countryman ,  but I still don’t know him . 
my ever gentle cousin ,  welcome hither . 	my ever - gentle cousin ,  welcome here . 
I know him now . 	now I know him now . 
good God ,  betimes remove The means that makes us strangers ! 	good God ,  soon we’ll remove The thing that makes us strangers ! 
sir ,  amen . 	sir ,  amen . 
stands Scotland where it did ? 	Is the situation in Scotland the same ? 
alas ,  poor country ,  Almost afraid to know itself ! 	alas ,  poor country ,  Almost afraid to know itself ! 
It cannot Be call'd our mother ,  but our grave . 	It cannot Be called our mother ,  only our grave . 
where nothing ,  But who knows nothing ,  is once seen to smile; Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air ,  Are made ,  not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems A modern ecstasy . 	where nothing ,  But who knows nothing ,  is once seen to smile ,  Where sighs ,  and groans ,  and shrieks ,  that tear at the air ,  Are made ,  not marked ,  where violent sorrow seems A modern ecstasy . 
the dead man's knell Is there scarce ask'd for who ,  and good men's lives Expire before the flowers in their caps ,  Dying or ere they sicken . 	no one hardly asks who The dead man's knell is for ,  and good men's lives Expire before the flowers in their caps ,  Dying before the flowers show signs of sickness . 
o ,  relation Too nice ,  and yet too true ! 	o ,  kinsman Too nice ,  and yet too true ! 
what's the newest grief ? 	what's the newest grief ? 
that of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker; Each minute teems a new one . 	the news accuses the speaker; Each minute turns up a new one . 
how does my wife ? 	how is my wife ? 
why ,  well . 	why ,  well . 
and all my children ? 	and all my children ? 
well too . 	well too . 
the tyrant has not batter'd at their peace ? 	the tyrant has not taken action against them ? 
no; they were well at peace when I did leave ’em . 	no; they were well at peace when I did leave them . 
be't their comfort We are coming thither . 	let it be their comfort that We are coming there . 
would I could answer This comfort with the like ! 	I wish I could answer This comfort with a similar one ! 
but I have words That would be howl'd out in the desert air ,  Where hearing should not latch them . 	but I have words That would be howled out into the desert air ,  Where hearing should not catch them . 
what concern they ? 	what concern are they ? 
the general cause ? 	the general cause ? 
or is it a fee - grief Due to some single breast ? 	or is it a grief owned Entirely by one person ? 
no mind that's honest But in it shares some woe ,  though the main part Pertains to you alone . 	only a mind that's honest Could share some of this woe ,  although the main part Pertains to you alone . 
let not your ears despise my tongue for ever ,  Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound That ever yet they heard . 	don’t let your ears hate what I’m going to say forever ,  Which will hit them with the heaviest sound That they have ever heard . 
your castle is surprised; your wife and babes Savagely slaughter'd . 	your wife and babies Savagely slaughtered . 
to relate the manner Were ,  on the quarry of these murder'd deer ,  To add the death of you . 	to relate the details Would be ,  on the numbers of these murdered deer ,  To add to your own death . 
merciful heaven ! 	merciful heaven ! 
what ,  man ! 	what ,  man ! 
ne'er pull your hat upon your brows; Give sorrow words . 	give your sorrow words . 
the grief that does not speak Whispers the o'er fraught heart ,  and bids it break . 	the grief that does not speak Builds up softly in the heart ,  and bids it break . 
my children too ? 	my children too ? 
wife ,  children ,  servants ,  all That could be found . 	wife ,  children ,  servants ,  all That could be found . 
and I must be from thence ! 	and I had to be away from home ! 
my wife kill'd too ? 	my wife killed too ? 
I have said . 	I have said it . 
be comforted . 	be comforted . 
let's make us medicines of our great revenge ,  To cure this deadly grief . 	let's make us medicines of our great revenge ,  To cure this deadly grief . 
he has no children . 	he has no children . 
all my pretty ones ? 	all my pretty ones ? 
did you say all ? 	did you say all ? 
o hell - kite ! 	o hell - kite ! 
all ? 	all ? 
what ,  all my pretty chickens and their dam At one fell swoop ? 	what ,  all my pretty chickens and their mother At one fell swoop ? 
dispute it like a man . 	revenge it like a man . 
I shall do so; But I must also feel it as a man . 	I shall do so; Only I must also feel it as a man . 
I cannot but remember such things were ,  That were most precious to me . 	I cannot only remember such things that were ,  That were most precious to me . 
did heaven look on ,  And would not take their part ? 	did heaven look on And would not take their side ? 
sinful Macduff ,  They were all struck for thee ! 	sinful Macduff ,  They were all struck for you ! 
naught that I am ,  Not for their own demerits ,  but for mine ,  Fell slaughter on their souls . 	nothing that I am ,  Not for their own sins ,  only for mine ,  Cruel slaughter on their souls . 
heaven rest them now ! 	heaven rest them now ! 
be this the whetstone of your sword . 	let this act be the stone that sharpens your sword . 
o ,  I could play the woman with mine eyes ,  And braggart with my tongue ! 	o ,  I could cry like a woman with my eyes ,  And brag with my tongue ! 
this tune goes manly . 	now you sound like a man . 
come ,  go we to the King; our power is ready; Our lack is nothing but our leave . 	come ,  let’s go to the king; our power is ready; The only thing is missing is our leaving . 
macbeth Is ripe for shaking ,  and the powers above Put on their instruments . 	macbeth Is ready to fall ,  and the powers above Show us the way . 
I have two nights watched with you ,  but can perceive no truth in your report . 	I have watched two nights with you ,  but I can perceive no truth in your report . 
when was it she last walked ? 	when was it she last walked ? 
since his Majesty went into the field ,  I have seen her rise from her bed ,  throw her nightgown upon her ,  unlock her closet ,  take forth paper ,  fold it ,  write upon't ,  read it ,  afterwards seal it ,  and again return to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleep . 	since his majesty went into the field ,  I have seen her rise from her bed ,  throw her nightgown upon her ,  unlock her closet ,  take out paper ,  fold it ,  write upon it ,  read it ,  afterwards seal it ,  and again return to bed . 
a great perturbation in nature ,  to receive at once the benefit of sleep and do the effects of watching ! 	a great disturbance in nature ,  to receive at once the benefit of sleep ,  and do things as if awake . 
In this slumbery agitation ,  besides her walking and other actual performances ,  what ,  at any time ,  have you heard her say ? 	In this slumbery agitation ,  besides her walking and other actual performances ,  what ,  at any time ,  have you heard her say ? 
that ,  sir ,  which I will not report after her . 	that ,  sir ,  which I will not report about her . 
you may to me ,  and ’tis most meet you should . 	you may to me ,  and it is most proper you should . 
neither to you nor any one ,  having no witness to confirm my speech . 	neither to you nor any one ,  having no witness to confirm my speech . 
lo you ,  here she comes ! 	look you ,  here she comes ! 
this is her very guise ,  and ,  upon my life ,  fast asleep . 	this is her very disguise ,  and ,  upon my life ,  fast asleep . 
observe her; stand close . 	observe her; stand close . 
how came she by that light ? 	where did she get that light ? 
why ,  it stood by her . 	why ,  it stood by her . 
she has light by her continually; ’tis her command . 	she has light by her continually; it is her command . 
you see ,  her eyes are open . 	you see ,  her eyes are open . 
ay ,  but their sense is shut . 	yes ,  only she doesn’t see anything . 
what is it she does now ? 	what’s she doing now ? 
look how she rubs her hands . 	look how she rubs her hands . 
It is an accustomed action with her ,  to seem thus washing her hands . 	she’s accustomed to it ,  to seem to washing her hands in this way . 
I have known her continue in this a quarter of an hour . 	I have known her continue in this way for a quarter of an hour . 
yet here's a spot . 	still here's a spot . 
hark ,  she speaks ! 	listen ,  she speaks . 
I will set down what comes from her ,  to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly . 	I will set down what she says ,  to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly . 
out ,  damned spot ! 	out ,  damned spot ! 
out ,  I say ! 	out ,  I say ! 
one–two— why then ’tis time to do't . 	one; two; why ,  then it is time to do it . 
hell is murky . 	hell is murky ! 
fie ,  my lord ,  fie ! 	for shame ,  my lord ,  for shame ! 
a soldier ,  and afeard ? 	a soldier ,  and afeard ? 
what need we fear who knows it ,  when none can call our power to account ? 	what need we fear who knows it ,  when none can call our power to account ? 
yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him ? 	yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him ? 
do you mark that ? 	do you mark that ? 
the Thane of Fife had a wife; where is she now ? 	the Baron of Fife had a wife; where is she now ? 
what ,  will these hands ne'er be clean ? 	what ,  will these hands never be clean ? 
no more o’ that ,  my lord ,  no more o’ that . 	no more of that ,  my lord ,  no more of that . 
you mar all with this starting . 	you mar all with this starting . 
go to ,  go to; you have known what you should not . 	you have known what you should not . 
she has spoke what she should not ,  I am sure of that . 	she has spoken what she should not ,  I am sure of that . 
heaven knows what she has known . 	heaven knows what she has known . 
here's the smell of the blood still . 	here's the smell of the blood still . 
all the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand . 	all the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand . 
oh ,  oh ,  oh ! 	oh ,  oh ,  oh ! 
what a sigh is there ! 	what a sigh that is ! 
the heart is sorely charged . 	the heart is sorely perplexed . 
I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body . 	I don’t wish to have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body . 
well ,  well ,  well— Pray God it be ,  sir . 	well ,  well ,  well ,  Pray God it be ,  sir . 
this disease is beyond my practice . 	this disease is beyond my practice . 
yet I have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds . 	yet I have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds . 
wash your hands ,  put on your nightgown; look not so pale . 	wash your hands ,  put on your nightgown; look not so pale . 
I tell you yet again ,  Banquo's buried; he cannot come out on's grave . 	I tell you yet again ,  Banquo's buried; he cannot come out on his grave . 
even so ? 	even so ? 
to bed ,  to bed; there's knocking at the gate . 	to bed ,  to bed; there's knocking at the gate . 
come ,  come ,  come ,  come ,  give me your hand . 	come ,  come ,  come ,  come ,  give me your hand . 
what's done cannot be undone . 	what’s done cannot be undone . 
to bed ,  to bed ,  to bed . 	to bed ,  to bed ,  to bed . 
will she go now to bed ? 	will she go now to bed ? 
directly . 	directly . 
foul whisperings are abroad . 	disgustingly filthy rumors are circulating . 
god ,  God ,  forgive us all ! 	god ,  God ,  forgive us all ! 
good night ,  good doctor . 	good - night ,  good doctor . 
the English power is near ,  led on by Malcolm ,  His uncle Siward ,  and the good Macduff . 	the English power is near ,  led on by Malcolm ,  His uncle Siward ,  and the good Macduff . 
revenges burn in them ,  for their dear causes Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm Excite the mortified man . 	revenges burn in them ,  because their dear causes Would excite a dead man To the flowing of blood and the grim alarm . 
near Birnam Wood Shall we well meet them; that way are they coming . 	we’ll meet them near Birnam wood They are coming that way . 
who knows if Donalbain be with his brother ? 	does any one know if Donalbain be with his brother ? 
there is Siward's son And many unrough youths ,  that even now Protest their first of manhood . 	there is Siward's son And many youths without beards which now Affirm they are beginning manhood . 
what does the tyrant ? 	what is the tyrant doing ? 
great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies . 	he strongly fortifies great Dunsinane . 
now does he feel his title Hang loose about him ,  like a giant's robe Upon a dwarfish thief . 	now he feels his title Hang loose about him ,  like a giant's robe Upon a dwarfish thief . 
who then shall blame His pester'd senses to recoil and start ,  When all that is within him does condemn Itself for being there ? 	who ,  then ,  shall blame him when His own vexed senses begin to recoil and attack ,  When all that is within him revolts against him ? 
well ,  march we on ,  To give obedience where ’tis truly owed . 	well ,  we march on ,  To give obedience where it is truly owed . 
meet we the medicine of the sickly weal ,  And with him pour we ,  in our country's purge ,  Each drop of us . 	we give out the medicine for the sickly commonwealth ,  And with him we pour ,  into our country's purge ,  Each drop of us . 
or so much as it needs To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds . 	or so much as it needs ,  To revive the flower of royalty and drown the weeds . 
make we our march towards Birnam	we march towards Birnam . 
bring me no more reports; let them fly all ! 	don’t bring me any more reports . 
till Birnam Wood remove to Dunsinane I cannot taint with fear . 	I won’t be afraid Until Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane . 
what's the boy Malcolm ? 	what about the boy Malcolm ? 
was he not born of woman ? 	didn’t a woman give birth to him ? 
the mind I sway by and the heart I bear Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear . 	the mind I think with and the courage I have Shall never sag with doubt or shake with fear . 
the devil damn thee black ,  thou cream - faced loon ! 	the devil damn you black ,  you cream - faced loon ! 
where got'st thou that goose look ? 	where did you get that cowardly look ? 
soldiers ,  sir . 	soldiers ,  sir . 
go prick thy face and over - red thy fear ,  Thou lily - liver'd boy . 	go prick your face and hide your fear in a red face ,  You lily - livered boy . 
what soldiers ,  patch ? 	what soldiers ,  servant ? 
death of thy soul ! 	death of your soul ! 
those linen cheeks of thine Are counselors to fear . 	those linen cheeks of your Are counselors to fear . 
what soldiers ,  whey - face ? 	what soldiers ,  milk - face ? 
the English force ,  so please you . 	the English force ,  so please you . 
take thy face hence . 	take your face out of here . 
seyton—I am sick at heart ,  When I behold—Seyton ,  I say ! —This push Will cheer me ever or disseat me now . 	I am sick at heart ,  When I behold Seyton ,  I say !  -  This attack Will give me the throne forever or unseat me now . 
I have lived long enough . 	I have lived long enough . 
my way of life Is fall'n into the sear ,  the yellow leaf ,  And that which should accompany old age ,  As honor ,  love ,  obedience ,  troops of friends ,  I must not look to have; but ,  in their stead ,  Curses ,  not loud but deep ,  mouth - honor ,  breath ,  Which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not . 	my way of life Is fallen into the dry ,  withered yellow leaf ,  And the things which should accompany old age ,  Honor ,  love ,  obedience ,  troops of friends ,  I think I’ll have ,  but ,  instead of them ,  I’ll have Curses ,  not loud ,  only deep ,  mouth - honor ,  breath ,  Which the poor heart would gladly deny ,  and dare not . 
seyton ! 	seyton ! 
what's your gracious pleasure ? 	what's your gracious pleasure ? 
what news more ? 	what other news ? 
all is confirm'd ,  my lord ,  which was reported . 	all is confirmed ,  my lord ,  which was reported . 
I'll fight ,  ’til from my bones my flesh be hack'd . 	I'll fight until my flesh is hacked from my bones . 
give me my armor . 	give me my amour . 
tis not needed yet . 	It is not needed yet . 
I'll put it on . 	I'll put it on . 
give me mine armor . 	give me my amour . 
how does your patient ,  doctor ? 	how is your patient ,  doctor ? 
not so sick ,  my lord ,  As she is troubled with thick - coming fancies ,  That keep her from her rest . 	not so sick ,  my lord ,  As she is troubled with a number of illusions ,  That keep her from resting . 
cure her of that . 	cure her of that . 
therein the patient Must minister to himself . 	that’s where the patient Must minister to himself . 
throw physic to the dogs ,  I'll none of it . 	throw medicine to the dogs ,  I'll have none of it . 
seyton ,  send out . 	seyton ,  send out . 
doctor ,  the thanes fly from me . 	doctor ,  the Barons desert me . 
come ,  sir ,  dispatch . 	come ,  sir ,  get going . 
If thou couldst ,  doctor ,  cast The water of my land ,  find her disease And purge it to a sound and pristine health ,  I would applaud thee to the very echo ,  That should applaud again . 	If you could ,  doctor ,  analyze The urine of my land ,  find her disease ,  And purge it to a sound and former health ,  I would praise you to the very echo ,  That should praise again . 
pull't off ,  I say . 	you can do it ,  I say . 
what rhubarb ,  senna ,  or what purgative drug Would scour these English hence ? 	what rhubarb ,  senna ,  or other purgative drugs ,  Would do keep these English here healthy ? 
hear'st thou of them ? 	have you heard of them ? 
bring it after me . 	bring it after me . 
I will not be afraid of death and bane Till Birnam Forest come to Dunsinane . 	I will not be afraid of death and ruin ,  Until Birnam forest come to Dunsinane . 
cousins ,  I hope the days are near at hand That chambers will be safe . 	cousins ,  I hope the days are near at hand That our homes will be safe . 
we doubt it nothing . 	we don’t doubt it . 
what wood is this before us ? 	what wood is this before us ? 
the Wood of Birnam . 	the wood of Birnam . 
It shall be done . 	It shall be done . 
we learn no other but the confident tyrant Keeps still in Dunsinane ,  and will endure Our setting down before't . 	we can only learn that the confident tyrant Still stays in Dunsinane ,  and will put up with Our settling down before it . 
let our just censures Attend the true event ,  and put we on Industrious soldiership . 	let a true evaluation of the military situation Wait until we have won the battle . 
thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate ,  But certain issue strokes must arbitrate; Towards which ,  advance the war . 	speculation only tells about their unsure hopes; Only a certain outcome must settle Which direction the war will take . 
here let them lie Till famine and the ague eat them up . 	here let them lie Until famine and the plague eat them up . 
were they not forced with those that should be ours ,  We might have met them dareful ,  beard to beard ,  And beat them backward home . 	If they were not reinforced by those troops that should be ours ,  We might have met them boldly ,  beard to beard ,  And beat them backward where they came from . 
what is that noise ? 	what’s that noise ? 
It is the cry of women ,  my good lord . 	It is the cry of women ,  my good lord . 
wherefore was that cry ? 	why was that cry ? 
the Queen ,  my lord ,  is dead . 	the queen ,  my lord ,  is dead . 
out ,  out ,  brief candle ! 	out ,  out ,  brief candle ! 
life's but a walking shadow ,  a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the stage And then is heard no more . 	life's only a walking shadow; a bad actor ,  That struts and worries about his hour onstage ,  And then is not heard from again . 
It is a tale Told by an idiot ,  full of sound and fury ,  Signifying nothing . 	It is a tale Told by an idiot ,  full of sound and fury ,  Signifying nothing . 
gracious my lord ,  I should report that which I say I saw ,  But know not how to do it . 	gracious my lord ,  I would report what I say I saw ,  Only I don’t know how to do it . 
well ,  say ,  sir . 	well ,  just say it ,  sir . 
as I did stand my watch upon the hill ,  I look'd toward Birnam ,  and anon ,  methought ,  The Wood began to move . 	as I was standing my watch upon the hill ,  I looked toward Birnam ,  and in a minute ,  I thought ,  The wood began to move . 
liar and slave ! 	liar ,  and slave ! 
let me endure your wrath ,  if't be not so . 	let me suffer your anger if it isn’t so . 
within this three mile may you see it coming; I say ,  a moving grove . 	within these three miles ,  you can see it coming ,  I say ,  a moving grove . 
I pull in resolution and begin To doubt the equivocation of the fiend That lies like truth . 	I reign in my resolution and begin To doubt the lie of the fiend That lies the same as telling the truth . 
fear not ,  till Birnam Wood Do come to Dunsinane ,  ”  and now a wood Comes toward Dunsinane . 	fear not ,  until Birnam wood Do come to Dunsinane; "  and now a wood Comes toward Dunsinane . 
arm ,  arm ,  and out ! 	arm ,  arm ,  and attack ! 
If this which he avouches does appear ,  There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here . 	If this which he swears does appear ,  There is no flying from here or wasting time here . 
I ’gin to be aweary of the sun And wish the estate o’ the world were now undone . 	I begin to be weary of the sun ,  And I wish the order the world were now destroyed . 
ring the alarum bell ! 	ring the alarms bell ! 
blow ,  wind ! 	blow ,  wind ! 
come ,  wrack ! 	come ,  ruin ! 
at least we'll die with harness on our back . 	at least we'll die with armor on our back . 
now near enough; your leavy screens throw down ,  And show like those you are . 	now that we’re near enough ,  throw the branch down ,  And look like the men you are . 
fare you well . 	fare you well . 
do we but find the tyrant's power tonight ,  Let us be beaten ,  if we cannot fight . 	If we only find the tyrant's forces tonight ,  Let us be beaten if we cannot fight . 
what's he That was not born of woman ? 	who is he That was not born of woman ? 
such a one Am I to fear ,  or none . 	such a one I am to fear ,  not anyone else . 
what is thy name ? 	what is your name ? 
thou'lt be afraid to hear it . 	you’ll be afraid to hear it . 
my name's Macbeth . 	my name's Macbeth . 
the devil himself could not pronounce a title More hateful to mine ear . 	the devil himself could not pronounce a title More hateful to my ear . 
no ,  nor more fearful . 	no ,  nor more fearful . 
thou liest ,  abhorred tyrant; with my sword I'll prove the lie thou speak'st . 	you lie ,  abhorred tyrant; with my sword I'll prove the lie you speak . 
thou wast born of woman . 	you were given birth by a woman . 
but swords I smile at ,  weapons laugh to scorn ,  Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born . 	but I smile at swords ,  laugh scornfully at weapons ,  Brandished by man that's been given birth by a woman . 
that way the noise is . 	the noise is that way . 
tyrant ,  show thy face ! 	tyrant ,  show your face ! 
If thou beest slain and with no stroke of mine ,  My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still . 	If you are already slain and not by me ,  My wife and children's ghosts will still haunt me . 
let me find him ,  fortune ! 	let me find him ,  fortune ! 
and more I beg not . 	and I will not beg for more . 
this way ,  my lord; the castle's gently render'd . 	this way ,  my lord; the castle's gently surrounded . 
the tyrant's people on both sides do fight ,  The noble thanes do bravely in the war; The day almost itself professes yours ,  And little is to do . 	the tyrant's people fight on both sides; The noble barons fight bravely in the war; The day almost professes itself to be yours ,  And little is to do . 
we have met with foes That strike beside us . 	we have met with foes That fight beside us . 
enter ,  sir ,  the castle . 	enter the castle ,  sir . 
why should I play the Roman fool and die On mine own sword ? 	why should I play the Roman fool and die On my own sword ? 
whiles I see lives ,  the gashes Do better upon them . 	while I see living creatures ,  the gashes Look better on them . 
turn ,  hell hound ,  turn ! 	turn ,  hell - hound ,  turn ! 
of all men else I have avoided thee . 	of all men else I have avoided you . 
thou losest labor . 	you’re wasting your efforts . 
despair thy charm ,  And let the angel whom thou still hast served Tell thee ,  Macduff was from his mother's womb Untimely ripp'd . 	lose hope of your charm; And let the genius whom you still have served Tell you ,  Macduff was from his mother's womb Delivered by caesarean section . 
accursed be that tongue that tells me so ,  For it hath cow'd my better part of man ! 	curse you for telling me that ,  Because it has intimidated my better part of man ! 
and be these juggling fiends no more believed ,  That palter with us in a double sense ,  That keep the word of promise to our ear ,  And break it to our hope . 	and let these deceitful fiends be believed no more ,  That trick us with double meanings ,  That keep the word of promise to our ears ,  And break it to our hopes ! 
I'll not fight with thee . 	I will not fight with you . 
then yield thee ,  coward ,  And live to be the show and gaze o’ the time . 	then surrender ,  you coward ,  And live to be the center of attention of the times . 
though Birnam Wood be come to Dunsinane ,  And thou opposed ,  being of no woman born ,  Yet I will try the last . 	although Birnam wood did come to Dunsinane ,  And you against me ,  being given birth to by a woman ,  I will still fight to the end . 
before my body I throw my warlike shield ! 	I throw my warlike shield Before my body . 
macduff is missing ,  and your noble son . 	macduff is missing and your noble son . 
then he is dead ? 	then he is dead ? 
ay ,  and brought off the field . 	yes ,  and brought off the field . 
your cause of sorrow Must not be measured by his worth ,  for then It hath no end . 	your cause of sorrow Must not be measured by his worth ,  because then It will have no end . 
had he his hurts before ? 	was he wounded on the front of his body ? 
ay ,  on the front . 	yes ,  on the front . 
why then ,  God's soldier be he ! 	why then ,  he was God's soldier ! 
had I as many sons as I have hairs ,  I would not wish them to a fairer death . 	If I had as many sons as I have hairs ,  I would not wish them to a fairer death . 
and so his knell is knoll'd . 	and ,  so his death bell is rung . 
here comes newer comfort . 	here comes newer comfort . 
behold where stands The usurper's cursed head . 	behold ,  here is The usurper's cursed head . 
the time is free . 	we are free . 
I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl That speak my salutation in their minds ,  Whose voices I desire aloud with mine: Hail ,  King of Scotland ! 	I see you surrounded by the finest nobles in the kingdom That speak my greetings by their thoughts ,  Whose voices I want to hear loudly with mine: Hail ,  King of Scotland ! 
hail ,  King of Scotland ! 	hail ,  King of Scotland ! 
we shall not spend a large expense of time Before we reckon with your several loves ,  And make us even with you . 	we shall not waste time Before we make an accounting of your separate loves ,  And make us even with you . 
my thanes and kinsmen ,  Henceforth be Earls ,  the first that ever Scotland In such an honor named . 	my barons and relatives ,  From this point forward you are earls ,  the first that Scotland ever Named to such an honor . 
In sooth ,  I know not why I am so sad; It wearies me; you say it wearies you; But how I caught it ,  found it ,  or came by it ,  What stuff 'tis made of ,  whereof it is born ,  I am to learn; And such a want - wit sadness makes of me ,  That I have much ado to know myself . 	really ,  I don’t know why I’m so sad; It wearies me; you say it wearies you; But how I caught it ,  found it ,  or came by it ,  What it’s made of ,  where it started ,  I must find out; And sadness makes me so crazy That I don’t know who I am . 
your mind is tossing on the ocean; There ,  where your argosies ,  with portly sail , — Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood ,  Or ,  as it were ,  the pageants of the sea , — Do overpeer the petty traffickers ,  That curt'sy to them ,  do them reverence ,  As they fly by them with their woven wings . 	your mind is tossing on the ocean ,  Where your ships ,  with full sails — Like gentlemen and rich citizens on the water ,  Or as if they were in a procession of the sea— Look over the minor merchants ,  That bow to them ,  pay them respect ,  As they fly by them with their woven wings . 
believe me ,  sir ,  had I such venture forth ,  The better part of my affections would Be with my hopes abroad . 	believe me ,  sir ,  if I had such venture out there ,  The better part of my thoughts would Be with my hope of their safe arrival . 
I should be still Plucking the grass ,  to know where sits the wind; Peering in maps ,  for ports ,  and piers ,  and roads: And every object that might make me fear Misfortune to my ventures ,  out of doubt Would make me sad . 	I’d be Still plucking the grass to know where the wind blows ,  Looking over maps for ports and piers and roads; And every object that would make me afraid of Misfortune to my ships ,  Would make me sad without a doubt . 
my wind ,  cooling my broth ,  Would blow me to an ague ,  when I thought What harm a wind too great might do at sea . 	my breath ,  cooling my soup ,  Would make me ill ,  when I thought about The damage a mighty wind might do at sea . 
I should not see the sandy hour - glass run ,  But I should think of shallows and of flats; And see my wealthy Andrew dock'd in sand ,  Vailing her high - top lower than her ribs ,  To kiss her burial . 	I shouldn’t see the time pass in the sands of an hour - glass But I’d be thinking about shallows and sandbars ,  And seeing my wealthy ship of war run aground ,  Lowering her high top sails lower than her hull To sink . 
should I go to church ,  And see the holy edifice of stone ,  And not bethink me straight of dangerous rocks ,  Which ,  touching but my gentle vessel's side ,  Would scatter all her spices on the stream ,  Enrobe the roaring waters with my silks ,  And ,  in a word ,  but even now worth this ,  And now worth nothing ? 	even if I went to church And saw the holy building of stone ,  I’d be thinking right away about dangerous rocks ,  Which ,  touching only my gentle vessel's side ,  Would scatter all her spices across the water ,  Spreading my silk cargo across the roaring waters ,  And ,  in a word ,  one minute worth this amount of money ,  And now worth nothing . 
shall I have the thought To think on this; and shall I lack the thought That such a thing ,  bechanc'd ,  would make me sad ? 	If I had the mind To think about all this ,  and if I lacked the mind to see That such a thing could happen ,  wouldn’t it make me sad ? 
but tell not me; I know ,  Antonio Is sad to think upon his merchandise . 	but don’t tell me; I know Antonio Is sad to think about his shipments . 
believe me ,  no; I thank my fortune for it ,  My ventures are not in one bottom trusted ,  Nor to one place; nor is my whole estate Upon the fortune of this present year: Therefore my merchandise makes me not sad . 	believe me ,  no; I thank my fortune for it ,  My cargos are not all loaded on one ship ,  Or going to one place ,  and my whole estate is not Based on the fortune of this present year; So ,  my shipments don’t make me sad . 
not in love neither ? 	not in love either ? 
then let us say ,  you are sad ,  Because you are not merry: and 'twere as easy For you to laugh ,  and leap ,  and say you are merry ,  Because you are not sad . 	then let’s say you are sad Because you are not happy; and it’s easy to say that Because you laugh and leap and say you are happy ,  Because you are not sad . 
now ,  by two - headed Janus ,  Nature hath fram'd strange fellows in her time: Some that will evermore peep through their eyes ,  And laugh ,  like parrots ,  at a bag - piper; And other of such vinegar aspect ,  That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile ,  Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable . 	now ,  looking at both sides ,  Nature has made strange fellows in her time: Some that will peep through their eyes forever ,  And laugh like parrots at a bag - piper ,  And the others of such sour disposition That they'll never smile Although a wise old man swears that the joke is funny . 
I would have stay'd till I had made you merry ,  If worthier friends had not prevented me . 	I’d have stayed until I had made you happy ,  If worthier friends hadn’t stopped me . 
your worth is very dear in my regard . 	I appreciate your concern . 
I take it ,  your own business calls on you ,  And you embrace the occasion to depart . 	I see your own business needs you ,  And you take this opportunity to leave . 
good morrow ,  my good lords . 	good morning ,  my good lords . 
good signiors both ,  when shall we laugh ? 	good gentlemen ,  when are we getting together ? 
say ,  when ? 	say when . 
you grow exceeding strange: must it be so ? 	you’re turning into strangers; has it come to that ? 
we'll make our leisures to attend on yours . 	we'll wait until you’re free . 
my Lord Bassanio ,  since you have found Antonio ,  We two will leave you; but at dinner - time ,  I pray you have in mind where we must meet . 	my Lord Bassanio ,  since you have found Antonio ,  We’ll leave you; but ,  at dinnertime ,  Please remember where we’re meeting . 
I will not fail you . 	I won’t forget . 
I hold the world but as the world ,  Gratiano; A stage ,  where every man must play a part ,  And mine a sad one . 	I only think of the world as the world ,  Gratiano; A stage ,  where every man must play a part ,  And my part is a sad one . 
well ,  we will leave you then till dinner - time . 	oK ,  we’ll leave you then until dinnertime . 
I must be one of these same dumb wise men ,  For Gratiano never lets me speak . 	I must be one of these same dumb wise men ,  Because Gratiano never lets me speak . 
well ,  keep me company but two years more ,  Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue . 	well ,  keep me company for only two more years ,  and You’ll never know the sound of your own voice . 
farewell: I'll grow a talker for this gear . 	goodbye ,  I'll be a better talker by dinner . 
thanks ,  i' faith; for silence is only commendable In a neat's tongue dried ,  and a maid not vendible . 	thanks ,  really ,  because silence is only commendable In a cow’s dried tongue ,  and in a girl who’s not for sale . 
Is that any thing now ? 	Is that anything to think about now ? 
well; tell me now ,  what lady is the same To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage ,  That you to - day promis'd to tell me of ? 	well ,  tell me now about the lady ,  The one you swore to make a secret trip to ,  The one you promised to tell me about today ? 
tis not unknown to you ,  Antonio ,  How much I have disabled mine estate ,  By something showing a more swelling port Than my faint means would grant continuance: Nor do I now make moan to be abridg'd From such a noble rate; but my chief care Is to come fairly off from the great debts Wherein my time ,  something too prodigal ,  Hath left me gag'd . 	you know ,  Antonio ,  How much I have wasted my money By putting on a fancier appearance Than my small funds could support; I don’t come to you now to ask that you Forgive my debts ,  because my chief concern Is to make good on these great debts Which my behavior ,  sometimes reckless And wasteful ,  has left me broke . 
to you ,  Antonio ,  I owe the most in money and in love; And from your love I have a warranty To unburthen all my plots and purposes ,  How to get clear of all the debts I owe . 	to you ,  Antonio ,  I owe the most ,  in money and in friendship ,  And ,  from your friendship ,  I have a guarantee To get rid of all my plots and intentions as to How to get clear all the debts I owe . 
I pray you ,  good Bassanio ,  let me know it; And ,  if it stand ,  as you yourself still do ,  Within the eye of honour ,  be assur'd ,  My purse ,  my person ,  my extremest means ,  Lie all unlock'd to your occasions . 	please ,  good Bassanio ,  tell me; And if it is ,  honorable ,  as you yourself still are ,  Be assured that my purse ,  my person ,  My utmost ability can be used for your benefit . 
In my schooldays ,  when I had lost one shaft ,  I shot his fellow of the self - same flight The self - same way ,  with more advised watch ,  To find the other forth; and by adventuring both I oft found both: I urge this childhood proof ,  Because what follows is pure innocence . 	when I was in school ,  when I had lost one arrow ,  I shot another one of identical length In an identical way ,  with more thoughtful care ,  To find the one I lost ,  and by risking both ,  I often Found both . 
I owe you much; and ,  like a wilful youth ,  That which I owe is lost: but if you please To shoot another arrow that self way Which you did shoot the first ,  I do not doubt ,  As I will watch the aim ,  or to find both ,  Or bring your latter hazard back again ,  And thankfully rest debtor for the first . 	I owe you a lot ,  and ,  like a willful youth ,  I have lost what I owe you ,  but if you will please Lend me money in the identical way That you lent me the first money ,  I don’t doubt ,  As I’ll be more careful ,  to find both sums ,  Or I’ll bring your second loan back again And just owe you thankfully for the first . 
you know me well ,  and herein spend but time ,  To wind about my love with circumstance; And ,  out of doubt ,  you do me now more wrong In making question of my uttermost ,  Than if you had made waste of all I have . 	you know me well ,  and waste time here To twist a story about my friendship with examples; And ,  no doubt ,  you insult me By questioning the limits of my friendship As if you had wasted everything I have . 
then do but say to me what I should do ,  That in your knowledge may by me be done ,  And I am prest unto it: therefore speak . 	you only have say to me what I should do That you think I can do ,  And I am committed to it; so ,  ask me . 
In Belmont is a lady richly left ,  And she is fair ,  and ,  fairer than that word ,  Of wondrous virtues . 	In Belmont ,  there is a rich heiress And she is beautiful and ,  more beautiful than that word ,  She has wonderful virtues . 
nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth; For the four winds blow in from every coast Renowned suitors ,  and her sunny locks Hang on her temples like a golden fleece; Which makes her seat of Belmont ,  Colchos' strand ,  And many Jasons come in quest of her . 	the wide world is not ignorant of her worth ,  Because the four winds blow in famous men who Want to marry her from every coast ,  and her golden curls Hang on her head like a golden fleece ,  Which makes Belmont ,  her home ,  a rich island in a lake ,  And many sailors and heroes come to find her . 
o ,  my Antonio ! 	oh ,  my Antonio ! 
had I but the means To hold a rival place with one of them ,  I have a mind presages me such thrift ,  That I should questionless be fortunate . 	If I only had the means To compete with one of them ,  I have a mind that predicts such good luck for me That I will undoubtedly be a very lucky one . 
thou know'st that all my fortunes are at sea; Neither have I money ,  nor commodity To raise a present sum: therefore go forth ,  Try what my credit can in Venice do; That shall be rack'd ,  even to the uttermost ,  To furnish thee to Belmont ,  to fair Portia . 	you know that all my funds are invested in ships At sea; I don’t have the money or goods To raise such a large sum; So ,  go out ,  See what my credit in Venice can do for you ,  Credit that shall be stretched ,  even to the outer limits ,  To supply you for your trip to Belmont to beautiful Portia . 
go ,  presently inquire ,  and so will I ,  Where money is; and I no question make ,  To have it of my trust ,  or for my sake . 	go now and ask where money can be found ,  And I will too ,  and I will not object To borrowing it on my account or in my name . 
by my troth ,  Nerissa ,  my little body is a - weary of this great world . 	honestly ,  Nerissa ,  my little body is weary of this great world . 
you would be ,  sweet madam ,  if your miseries were in the same abundance as your good fortunes are; and yet ,  for aught I see ,  they are as sick that surfeit with too much ,  as they that starve with nothing . 	you would be ,  sweet madam ,  if your miseries were as abundant as your good fortunes are; and yet ,  for all I see ,  they that are sick from over - eating are as sick as those that starve with nothing . 
It is no mean happiness ,  therefore ,  to be seated in the mean; superfluity comes sooner by white hairs ,  but competency lives longer . 	It’s not an insignificant happiness ,  therefore ,  to be well situated in regard to financial resources: having more than enough comes at some time or other to old men ,  but having a sufficient income lasts longer . 
good sentences ,  and well pronounced . 	good sentences ,  and well said . 
they would be better ,  if well followed . 	they would be better sentences ,  if you followed them well . 
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do ,  chapels had been churches ,  and poor men's cottages princes' palaces . 	If knowing what to do were as easy as knowing what was good to do ,  chapels would have been churches ,  and poor men's cottages would have been princes' palaces . 
It is a good divine that follows his own instructions: I can easier teach twenty what were good to be done ,  than be one of the twenty to follow mine own teaching . 	It is a good prophet that follows his own instructions; It’s easier for me to teach twenty people what was good to do than to be one of that twenty and follow my own teaching . 
the brain may devise laws for the blood; but a hot temper leaps o'er a cold decree: such a hare is madness the youth ,  to skip o'er the meshes of good counsel the cripple . 	the brain may come up with laws to control society ,  but one hot temper jumps over a cold law; Madness the Youth is just such a jumper ,  skipping over the nets of Good Advice the Cripple . 
but this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband:—O me ,  the word choose ! 	but thinking this way is not the way to choose a husband for me . 
your father was ever virtuous; and holy men at their death have good inspirations; therefore ,  the lottery that he hath devised in these three chests ,  of gold ,  silver ,  and lead ,  (whereof who chooses his meaning chooses you , ) will ,  no doubt ,  never be chosen by any rightly ,  but one who you shall rightly love . 	your father was always a holy man ,  and holy men have good ideas when they die; so the lottery that he has thought up in these three chests ,  made of gold ,  of silver ,  and of lead ,  by means of which whoever chooses the right chest chooses you ,  will ,  no doubt ,  never be chosen by the right man except the one you shall rightly love . 
but what warmth is there in your affection towards any of these princely suitors that are already come ? 	but what warmth is there in your affections towards any of these princes that have already come to try ? 
ay ,  that's a colt ,  indeed ,  for he doth nothing but talk of his horse; and he makes it a great appropriation to his own good parts that he can shoe him himself: I am much afraid my lady his mother played false with a smith . 	yes ,  he’s a cunning fellow indeed ,  because he doesn’t do a thing but talk about his horse; and he makes it a great attribute to his own good qualities that he can shoe him himself; I am very afraid ,  my lady ,  his mother had an affair with a blacksmith . 
then ,  is there the county Palatine . 	then there is the Count Palatine . 
he doth nothing but frown; as who should say ,  An you will not have me ,  choose; he hears merry tales ,  and smiles not: I fear he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old ,  being so full of unmannerly sadness in his youth . 	he doesn’t do a thing but frown ,  as someone would say ,   “ If you will not have me ,  choose .  ”  He hears happy tales and doesn’t smile: I’m afraid he will probably be the weeping philosopher when he grows old ,  being so full of rude sadness in his youth . 
I had rather be married to a death's head with a bone in his mouth ,  than to either of these . 	I would rather be married to a skull with a bone in his mouth than to either of these princes . 
god defend me from these two ! 	god defend me from these two ! 
how say you by the French lord ,  Monsieur Le Bon ? 	what do you have to say about the French lord ,  Monsieur Le Bon ? 
god made him ,  and therefore let him pass for a man . 	god made him ,  and so let him pass for a man . 
In truth ,  I know it is a sin to be a mocker; but ,  he ! 	In truth ,  I know it is a sin to be a mocker ,  but him ! 
what say you then to Falconbridge ,  the young baron of England ? 	what do you say then about Falconbridge ,  the young baron of England ? 
you know I say nothing to him; for he understands not me ,  nor I him: he hath neither Latin ,  French ,  nor Italian; and you will come into the court ,  and swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English . 	you know I say nothing to him ,  because he doesn’t understand me ,  and I don’t understand him: He doesn’t know Latin ,  French ,  or Italian ,  and you will come into the court and swear that I only know a penny’s worth of English . 
how oddly he is suited ! 	how oddly he is dressed ! 
I think he bought his doublet in Italy ,  his round hose in France ,  his bonnet in Germany and his behaviour everywhere . 	I think he bought his shirt in Italy ,  his hose in France ,  his hat in Germany ,  and his behavior everywhere . 
what think you of the Scottish lord ,  his neighbour ? 	what do you think about the Scottish lord ,  his neighbor ? 
that he hath a neighbourly charity in him; for he borrowed a box of the ear of the Englishman ,  and swore he would pay him again when he was able: I think the Frenchman became his surety ,  and sealed under for another . 	I think that he has neighborly charity in him ,  because he borrowed a moneybox from the Englishman ,  and swore he would pay him again when he was able; I think the Frenchman became his guarantor and it was sealed by another . 
how like you the young German ,  the Duke of Saxony's nephew ? 	how do you like the young German ,  the Duke of Saxony's nephew ? 
very vilely in the morning ,  when he is sober; and most vilely in the afternoon ,  when he is drunk: when he is best ,  he is a little worse than a man; and when he is worst ,  he is little better than a beast: and the worst fall that ever fell ,  I hope I shall make shift to go without him . 	very disgusting in the morning when he is sober ,  and most disgusting in the afternoon when he is drunk: when he is best ,  he is a little worse than a man ,  and when he is worst ,  he is little better than a beast . 
If he should offer to choose ,  and choose the right casket ,  you should refuse to perform your father's will ,  if you should refuse to accept him . 	If he offers to choose ,  and chooses the right chest ,  you would be refusing to perform your father's will ,  if you refused to accept him . 
therefore ,  for fear of the worst ,  I pray thee ,  set a deep glass of Rhenish wine on the contrary casket; for ,  if the devil be within and that temptation without ,  I know he will choose it . 	so ,  for fear of the worst ,  please set a deep glass of Rhenish wine on the wrong chest; because if the devil were within the chest and that temptation on top of it ,  I know he will choose it . 
I will do anything ,  Nerissa ,  ere I will be married to a sponge . 	I will do anything ,  Nerissa ,  before I’ll be married to a sponge . 
you need not fear ,  lady ,  the having any of these lords: they have acquainted me with their determinations: which is ,  indeed ,  to return to their home ,  and to trouble you with no more suit; unless you may be won by some other sort than your father's imposition ,  depending on the caskets . 	you don’t need to be afraid ,  lady ,  of having any of these lords; they have told me their intentions ,  which is indeed to go back to their homes ,  and to trouble you with no more suits ,  unless you may be won by some other way than your father's command ,  that getting you depends on the chests . 
If I live to be as old as Sibylla I will die as chaste as Diana ,  unless I be obtained by the manner of my father's will . 	If I live to be as old as Sibylla the witch ,  I’ll die as pure as Diana the goddess of purity ,  unless I am obtained by the letter of my father's will . 
I am glad this parcel of wooers are so reasonable; for there is not one among them but I dote on his very absence ,  and I pray God grant them a fair departure . 	I am glad this batch of would - be husbands are so reasonable; because there isn’t one of them that I am not foolishly in love with his very absence ,  and I pray God grant them a fair departure . 
do you not remember ,  lady ,  in your father's time ,  a Venetian ,  a scholar and a soldier that came hither in company of the Marquis of Montferrat ? 	don’t you not remember ,  lady ,  in your father's time ,  a Venetian ,  a scholar and a soldier ,  that came here in the company of the Marquis of Montserrat ? 
yes ,  yes ,  it was Bassanio; as I think ,  so was he called . 	yes ,  yes ,  it was Bassanio ,  I think ,  or so he was called . 
true ,  madam; he ,  of all the men that ever my foolish eyes looked upon ,  was the best deserving a fair lady . 	true ,  madam; he ,  that ,  of all the men that I have ever seen with my foolish eyes ,  was the most deserving of a beautiful lady . 
I remember him well; and I remember him worthy of thy praise . 	I remember him well ,  and I remember him worthy of your praise . 
how now ! 	how is it now ! 
what news ? 	what’s the news ? 
the four strangers seek for you ,  madam ,  to take their leave: and there is a forerunner come from a fifth ,  the Prince of Morocco; who brings word ,  the prince ,  his master ,  will be here to - night . 	the four strangers are looking for you ,  madam ,  to say their goodbyes ,  and there is a messenger come from a fifth ,  the Prince of Morocco ,  who brings word the Prince ,  his master ,  will be here tonight . 
If I could bid the fifth welcome with so good a heart as I can bid the other four farewell ,  I should be glad of his approach: if he have the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil ,  I had rather he should shrive me than wive me . 	If I could welcome the fifth with as good a heart as I can bid the other four goodbye ,  I would be happy of his arrival; if he has the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil ,  I would rather he heard my confession than marry me . 
come ,  Nerissa . 	come ,  Nerissa . 
three thousand ducats , —well . 	three thousand dollars; right ? 
ay ,  sir ,  for three months . 	yes ,  sir ,  for three months . 
for three months , —well . 	for three months; right ? 
for the which ,  as I told you ,  Antonio shall be bound . 	for which ,  as I told you ,  Antonio shall be obligated . 
antonio shall become bound , —well . 	antonio shall be obligated; right ? 
may you stead me ? 	will you help me ? 
will you pleasure me ? 	will you make me happy ? 
shall I know your answer ? 	can I know your answer ? 
three thousand ducats ,  for three months ,  and Antonio bound . 	three thousand dollars ,  for three months ,  and Antonio obligated . 
your answer to that . 	your answer to that . 
antonio is a good man . 	antonio is a good man . 
have you heard any imputation to the contrary ? 	have you heard any suggestion to the contrary ? 
but ships are but boards ,  sailors but men: there be land - rats and water - rats ,  land - thieves and water - thieves; I mean ,  pirates; and then ,  there is the peril of waters ,  winds ,  and rocks . 	but ships are only boards of wood ,  sailors only men; there are land - rats and water rats ,  land - thieves and water - thieves , —I mean pirates , —and then there is the peril of waters ,  winds ,  and rocks . 
the man is ,  notwithstanding ,  sufficient;—three thousand ducats; —I think I may take his bond . 	three thousand dollars  -  I think I may take his promise to pay . 
be assured you may . 	be assured you may . 
I will be assured I may; and that I may be assured ,  I will bethink me . 	I’ll be assured that I may; and ,  that I may be assured ,  I will think it over . 
may I speak with Antonio ? 	may I speak with Antonio ? 
If it please you to dine with us . 	If it pleases you to dine with us . 
yes ,  to smell pork; to eat of the habitation which your prophet ,  the Nazarite ,  conjured the devil into ! 	yes ,  to smell pork; to eat in the temple that your prophet ,  the Nazarene ,  conjured the devil into . 
this is Signior Antonio . 	this is Mr .  Antonio . 
how like a fawning publican he looks ! 	he looks like a flattering tax collector ! 
I hate him for he is a Christian: But more ,  for that ,  in low simplicity ,  He lends out money gratis ,  and brings down The rate of usance here with us in Venice . 	I hate him because he is a Christian; But more ,  because ,  in his low simplicity ,  He lends out money free ,  and brings down The rate of interest with us here in Venice . 
If I can catch him once upon the hip ,  I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him . 	If I can catch him once at a disadvantage ,  I’ll feed the ancient grudge I bear him until it’s fat . 
he hates our sacred nation; and he rails ,  Even there where merchants most do congregate ,  On me ,  my bargains ,  and my well - won thrift ,  Which he calls interest . 	he hates our sacred nation; and he abuses me ,  Even there where merchants congregate most of the time ,  Insulting me ,  my bargains ,  and my well - won success ,  Which he calls interest . 
cursed be my tribe If I forgive him ! 	cursed be my tribe of Israel If I forgive him ! 
shylock ,  do you hear ? 	shylock ,  do you hear me ? 
I am debating of my present store: And ,  by the near guess of my memory ,  I cannot instantly raise up the gross Of full three thousand ducats . 	I am debating about my present monies ,  And ,  by the nearest guess ,  I remember that I cannot instantly raise up the whole sum Of three thousand dollars . 
what of that ? 	what about that ? 
tubal ,  a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe ,  Will furnish me . 	tubal ,  a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe ,  Will supply me . 
shylock ,  albeit I neither lend nor borrow ,  By taking ,  nor by giving of excess ,  Yet ,  to supply the ripe wants of my friend ,  I'll break a custom:—Is he yet possess'd How much you would ? 	shylock ,  although I don’t lend or borrow By taking or by giving excess money ,  Still ,  to supply the urgent wants of my friend ,  I'll break a custom . 
ay ,  ay ,  three thousand ducats . 	yes ,  yes ,  three thousand dollars . 
and for three months . 	and for three months . 
well then ,  your bond; and ,  let me see . 	well then ,  your promise to pay; and ,  let me see . 
but hear you: Methought you said ,  you neither lend nor borrow ,  Upon advantage . 	but listen ,  I thought you said you don’t lend or borrow By charging interest . 
I do never use it . 	I never charge interest . 
did he take interest ? 	did he charge interest ? 
no ,  not take interest; not ,  as you would say ,  Directly interest: mark what Jacob did . 	no ,  not charge interest; not ,  as you would say ,  Directly charge interest; listen to what Jacob did . 
when Laban and himself were compromis'd That all the eanlings which were streak'd and pied Should fall ,  as Jacob's hire; the ewes ,  being rank ,  In the end of autumn turned to the rams: And when the work of generation was ,  Between these woolly breeders ,  in the act ,  The skilful shepherd pill'd me certain wands ,  And ,  in the doing of the deed of kind ,  He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes; Who ,  then conceiving ,  did in eaning - time Fall party - colour'd lambs ,  and those were Jacob's . 	when Laban and he agreed That all the lambs which were streaked and multicolored Should be given to Jacob ,  the ewes ,  being divided ,  Were bred with the rams at the end of autumn; And just when the rams and the ewes Were in the act of procreation ,  The skilful shepherd peeled certain sticks ,  And ,  at the moment of mating ,  He stuck them up before the fat ewes ,  Who ,  then conceiving ,  did in lambing time Gave birth to multicolored lambs ,  and those were Jacob's . 
this was a way to thrive ,  and he was blest; And thrift is blessing ,  if men steal it not . 	this was a way to thrive ,  and he was blest; And good luck is blessing ,  if men don’t steal it . 
this was a venture ,  sir ,  that Jacob serv'd for; A thing not in his power to bring to pass ,  But sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of Heaven . 	this was an enterprise ,  sir ,  that Jacob worked for; A thing that was not in his power to bring to pass ,  But swayed and fashioned by the hand of heaven . 
was this inserted to make interest good ? 	are you telling me this to make interest good ? 
or is your gold and silver ewes and rams ? 	or is your gold and silver ewes and rams ? 
I cannot tell; I make it breed as fast: But note me ,  signior . 	I cannot tell; I make it breed as fast as ewes and rams . 
mark you this ,  Bassanio ,  The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose . 	pay attention ,  Bassanio ,  The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose . 
an evil soul producing holy witness Is like a villain with a smiling cheek; A goodly apple rotten at the heart; O ,  what a goodly outside falsehood hath ! 	an evil soul producing holy witness Is like a villain with a smiling cheek ,  A good apple rotten at the heart . 
three thousand ducats;—'tis a good round sum . 	three thousand dollars; it’s a good round sum . 
three months from twelve ,  then let me see; the rate . 	three months from twelve; then let me see the rate . 
well ,  Shylock ,  shall we be beholden to you ? 	well ,  Shylock ,  shall we be indebted to you ? 
signior Antonio ,  many a time and oft ,  In the Rialto you have rated me About my moneys ,  and my usances: Still have I borne it with a patient shrug ,  For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe: You call me , —misbeliever ,  cut - throat dog ,  And spet upon my Jewish gaberdine ,  And all for use of that which is mine own . 	mr .  Antonio ,  many times and often In the Marketplace you have abused me About my monies and my interest rates; I still have taken it with a patient shrug ,  Because suffering is the badge of all our tribe; You call me misbeliever ,  cut - throat dog ,  And spat on my Jewish clothes ,  And all because of using of that which is my own . 
well then ,  it now appears you need my help: Go to then: you come to me ,  and you say ,  Shylock ,  we would have monies; you say so; You ,  that did void your rheum upon my beard ,  And foot me ,  as you spurn a stranger cur Over your threshold; monies is your suit . 	well then ,  it now appears you need my help; Come on ,  then; you come to me ,  and you say  “ 'Shylock ,  we would have money .  ”  You say so: You that spit on my beard ,  And kick me as you spurn a strange dog On your doorstep; money is what you ask for . 
what should I say to you ? 	what should I say to you ? 
should I not say ,  Hath a dog money ? 	shouldn’t I say  “ Has a dog got money ? 
why ,  look you ,  how you storm ! 	why ,  look ,  how you get angry ! 
this were kindness . 	this was kindness ? 
content ,  in faith; I'll seal to such a bond ,  And say there is much kindness in the Jew . 	happily ,  in faith; I'll put my seal to such a promise to pay ,  And say there is much kindness in the Jew . 
you shall not seal to such a bond for me; I'll rather dwell in my necessity . 	you shall not put your seal to such a promise to pay For me; I’d rather live in my poverty . 
why ,  fear not ,  man ,  I will not forfeit it; Within these two months , —that's a month before This bond expires , —I do expect return Of thrice three times the value of this bond . 	why ,  don’t be afraid ,  man; I won’t default in payment; Within the next two months ,  that's a month before This promise to pay expires ,  I expect to get a return Of three times three of the value of this promise to pay . 
o father Abram ,  what these Christians are ,  Whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect The thoughts of others ! 	oh ,  father Abraham ,  what are these Christians ,  Whose own hard dealings teach them to suspect The thoughts of others . 
pray you ,  tell me this; If he should break his day ,  what should I gain By the exaction of the forfeiture ? 	please ,  tell me this; If he should break his promise ,  what should I gain By taking his forfeit ? 
a pound of man's flesh ,  taken from a man ,  Is not so estimable ,  profitable neither ,  As flesh of muttons ,  beefs ,  or goats . 	a pound of man's flesh ,  taken from a man ,  Is not so valuable ,  or profitable either ,  As flesh of mutton ,  beef ,  or goat . 
I say ,  To buy his favour ,  I extend this friendship; If he will take it ,  so; if not ,  adieu; And ,  for my love ,  I pray you wrong me not . 	I say ,  To buy his good will ,  I extend this friendship; If he will take it ,  okay; if not ,  goodbye; And ,  for my friendship ,  please don’t insult me . 
yes ,  Shylock ,  I will seal unto this bond . 	yes ,  Shylock ,  I’ll put my seal to this promise to pay . 
then meet me forthwith at the notary's; Give him direction for this merry bond ,  And I will go and purse the ducats straight; See to my house ,  left in the fearful guard Of an unthrifty knave; and presently I will be with you . 	then meet me immediately at the notary's; Give him directions for confirming this happy promise to pay ,  And I’ll go and get the dollars right away ,  Check on my house ,  left in the care Of an unlucky rogue ,  and I’ll be with you Soon . 
hie thee ,  gentle Jew . 	hurry ,  gentle Jew . 
this Hebrew will turn Christian; he grows kind . 	this Hebrew will become a Christian: he’s getting kind . 
I like not fair terms and a villain's mind . 	I don’t like fair terms and a villain's mind . 
come on; in this there can be no dismay ,  My ships come home a month before the day . 	come on; in this transaction ,  there can be no fear; My ships come home a month before the due date . 
mislike me not for my complexion ,  The shadowed livery of the burnish'd sun ,  To whom I am a neighbour ,  and near bred . 	don’t dislike me for my complexion ,  The dark clothing of the polished sun ,  To whom I am a neighbor ,  and born near it . 
bring me the fairest creature northward born ,  Where Phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles ,  And let us make incision for your love ,  To prove whose blood is reddest ,  his ,  or mine . 	bring me the fairest creature born in the north ,  Where the sun’s fire hardly thaws the icicles ,  And let’s make a cut for your love To prove whose blood is reddest ,  his or mine . 
In terms of choice I am not solely led By nice direction of a maiden's eyes: Besides ,  the lottery of my destiny Bars me the right of voluntary choosing: But ,  if my father had not scanted me ,  And hedg'd me by his wit ,  to yield myself His wife ,  who wins me by that means I told you ,  Yourself ,  renowned prince ,  then stood as fair As any comer I have look'd on yet ,  For my affection . 	In terms of choice ,  I am not only led By the nice direction of a maiden's eyes; Besides ,  the lottery of my destiny Doesn’t give me the right to choose voluntarily; But ,  if my father had not restricted me And controlled me by his wit ,  to give myself As his wife to the one who wins me by that means I told you ,  you yourself ,  renowned Prince ,  would then Stand as fair as any other man I have looked on yet For my affection . 
even for that I thank you; Therefore ,  I pray you ,  lead me to the caskets ,  To try my fortune . 	I thank you ,  even for that: So ,  please ,  lead me to the chests so I may Try my luck . 
by this scimitar , — That slew the Sophy ,  and a Persian prince ,  That won three fields of Sultan Solyman , — I would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look ,  Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth ,  Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she - bear ,  Yea ,  mock the lion when he roars for prey ,  To win thee ,  lady . 	by this sword , — That killed the Shah ,  a Persian prince ,  That won three battles with Sultan Solomon , — I would out stare the angriest eyes that look ,  Outbrave the most daring heart on the earth ,  Pluck the young ,  sucking cubs from their mother ,  Yes ,  taunt the lion when he roars for prey ,  To win you ,  lady . 
but ,  alas the while ! 	but ,  pity the time ! 
If Hercules and Lichas play at dice Which is the better man ,  the greater throw May turn by fortune from the weaker hand: So is Alcides beaten by his page; And so may I ,  blind fortune leading me ,  Miss that which one unworthier may attain ,  And die with grieving . 	If Hercules and Lichas threw dice to decide Who was the better man ,  the best throw May be turned by luck to come from the weaker hand: So Alcides was beaten by his boy servant; And I might too ,  with blind Fortune leading me ,  Miss that treasure which a more unworthy man may get ,  And I’ll die from grieving . 
you must take your chance; And either not attempt to choose at all ,  Or swear ,  before you choose , —if you choose wrong ,  Never to speak to lady afterward In way of marriage; therefore be advis'd . 	you must take your chance ,  And either don’t attempt to choose at all ,  Or swear before you choose that ,  if you choose wrong ,  You will never to speak to me afterward About marriage; so be advised . 
first ,  forward to the temple; after dinner Your hazard shall be made . 	first ,  forward to the temple: after dinner Your choice shall be made . 
to make me bless'd ,  or cursed'st among men . 	to make me blessed or cursed among men ! 
certainly ,  my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew ,  my master . 	certainly ,  my conscience will allow me to run from this Jew my master . 
the fiend is at mine elbow ,  and tempts me; saying to me , —Gobbo ,  Launcelot Gobbo ,  good Launcelot ,  or good Gobbo ,  or good Launcelot Gobbo ,  use your legs ,  take the start ,  run away . —My conscience says ,  no; take heed ,  honest Launcelot; take heed ,  honest Gobbo; or ,  (as aforesaid) honest Launcelot Gobbo; do not run: scorn running with thy heels: well ,  the most courageous fiend bids me pack; Via ! 	the devil is at my elbow and tempts me ,  saying to me ,   “ Gobbo ,  Launcelot Gobbo ,  good Launcelot ”  or  “ good Gobbo ”  or  “ good Launcelot Gobbo ,  use your legs ,  get going ,  run away .  ”  My conscience says ,   “ No; be careful ,  honest Launcelot ,  be careful ,  honest Gobbo ”  or ,  as I said before ,   “ honest Launcelot Gobbo ,  don’t run; scorn running with your heels .  ”  Well ,  the most courageous devil tells me to pack . 
says the fiend; away ! 	go !  ”  says the devil;  “ Away !  ”  says the devil . 
master ,  young man ,  you; I pray you ,  which is the way to master Jew's ? 	master young man ,  you ,  please; which is the way to Master Jew's ? 
o heavens ,  this is my true - begotten father ! 	oh ,  heavens ! 
who ,  being more than sand - blind ,  high - gravel blind ,  knows me not: I will try confusions with him . 	this is my biological father ,  who ,  being more than half - blind ,  nearly stone blind ,  doesn’t know me: I’ll try to confuse him . 
master ,  young gentleman ,  I pray you which is the way to master Jew's ? 	master young gentleman ,  please ,  which is the way to Master Jew's ? 
turn up on your right hand at the next turning ,  but ,  at the next turning of all ,  on your left; marry ,  at the very next turning ,  turn of no hand ,  but turn down indirectly to the Jew's house . 	turn up on your right hand at the next turning ,  but ,  at the next turning of all ,  on your left; damn it ,  at the very next turning ,  turn of no hand ,  but turn down indirectly to the Jew's house . 
by God's sonties ,  'twill be a hard way to hit . 	be God's sonties ,  it will be a hard way to go . 
can you tell me whether one Launcelot ,  that dwells with him ,  dwell with him ,  or no ? 	can you tell me whether one Launcelot ,  who lives with him ,  lives with him or not ? 
talk you of young Master Launcelot ? —Mark me now—now will I raise the waters . —Talk you of young master Launcelot ? 	are you talking about young Master Launcelot ? 
no master ,  sir ,  but a poor man's son: his father ,  though I say it ,  is an honest exceeding poor man ,  and ,  God be thanked ,  well to live . 	no master ,  sir ,  only a poor man's son; his father ,  although I say it ,  is an honest ,  exceedingly poor man ,  and ,  thank God ,  well enough to live . 
well ,  let his father be what a will ,  we talk of young master Launcelot . 	well ,  let his father be what he will be ,  we’re talking about young Master Launcelot . 
your worship's friend and Launcelot ,  sir . 	your worship's friend ,  and Launcelot ,  sir . 
but I pray you ergo ,  old man ,  ergo ,  I beseech you ,  talk you of young master Launcelot . 	but please ,  therefore ,  old man ,  therefore ,  I beg you ,  are you talking about young Master Launcelot ? 
of Launcelot ,  an't please your mastership . 	of Launcelot ,  if it pleases you ,  sir . 
marry ,  God forbid ! 	damn it ,  God forbid ! 
the boy was the very staff of my age ,  my very prop . 	the boy was the very support of my age ,  my very prop . 
do I look like a cudgel ,  or a hovel - post ,  a staff ,  or a prop ? 	do I look like a club or a beating stick ,  a staff or a prop ? 
do you know me ,  father ? 	don’t you know me ,  father ? 
do you not know me ,  father ? 	don’t you know me ,  father ? 
alack ,  sir ,  I am sand - blind ,  I know you not . 	sorry ,  sir ,  I am half - blind; I don’t know you . 
nay ,  indeed ,  if you had your eyes you might fail of the knowing me: it is a wise father that knows his own child . 	no ,  indeed ,  even if you had your eyes ,  you might not know me: it is a wise father that knows his own child . 
pray you ,  sir ,  stand up; I am sure you are not Launcelot ,  my boy . 	please ,  sir ,  stand up; I am sure you are not Launcelot ,  my boy . 
pray you ,  let's have no more fooling about it ,  but give me your blessing; I am Launcelot ,  your boy that was ,  your son that is ,  your child that shall be . 	please ,  let's have no more fooling about it ,  but give me your blessing; I am Launcelot ,  your boy that was ,  your son that is ,  your child that shall be . 
I cannot think you are my son . 	I cannot think you are my son . 
I know not what I shall think of that: but I am Launcelot ,  the Jew's man; and I am sure Margery ,  your wife ,  is my mother . 	I don’t know what I shall think of that; but I am Launcelot ,  the Jew's man ,  and I am sure Margery your wife is my mother . 
her name is Margery ,  indeed: I'll be sworn ,  if thou be Launcelot ,  thou art mine own flesh and blood . 	her name is Margery ,  indeed: I'll swear ,  if you are Launcelot ,  you are my own flesh and blood . 
thou hast got more hair on thy chin than Dobbin my phill - horse has on his tail . 	you have got more hair on your chin than Dobbin my thrill - horse has on his tail . 
It should seem then ,  that Dobbin's tail grows backward: I am sure he had more hair of his tail ,  than I have of my face ,  when I last saw him . 	It should seem ,  then ,  that Dobbin's tail grows backward; I am sure he had more hair on his tail than I have on my face when I last saw him . 
how dost thou and thy master agree ? 	how do you and your master get along ? 
I have brought him a present . 	I have brought him a present . 
how 'gree you now ? 	how do you get along now ? 
well ,  well; but ,  for mine own part ,  as I have set up my rest to run away ,  so I will not rest till I have run some ground . 	well ,  well; but ,  as for me ,  as I have made up my mind to run away ,  so I’ll not rest until I have run some ground . 
my master's a very Jew . 	my master's a very Jew . 
give him a halter: I am famished in his service; you may tell every finger I have with my ribs . 	I am starving in his service; you can count my ribs with your fingers . 
here comes the man;—to him ,  father; for I am a Jew if I serve the Jew any longer . 	here comes the man: give the present to him ,  father; because I am a Jew ,  if I serve the Jew any longer . 
you may do so:—but let it be so hasted ,  that supper be ready at the farthest by five of the clock . 	you may do so; but let it be quickly so that supper is ready by five of the clock at the latest . 
see these letters delivered; put the liveries to making; and desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging . 	see these letters are delivered ,  get the servants’ clothes made ,  and ask Gratiano to come now to my house . 
to him ,  father . 	to him ,  father . 
god bless your worship ! 	god bless you ,  sir ! 
wouldst thou aught with me ? 	god have mercy ,  what do you want with me ? 
here's my son ,  sir ,  a poor boy , — Not a poor boy ,  sir ,  but the rich Jew's man; that would ,  sir ,  as my father shall specify , — He hath a great infection ,  sir ,  as one would say ,  to serve , — Indeed ,  the short and the long is ,  I serve the Jew ,  and have a desire ,  as my father shall specify , — His master and he (saving your worship's reverence) are scarce cater - cousins:— To be brief ,  the very truth is ,  that the Jew having done me wrong ,  doth cause me ,  as my father ,  being I hope an old man ,  shall frutify unto you ,  — I have here a dish of doves ,  that I would bestow upon your worship; and my suit is , — In very brief ,  the suit is impertinent to myself ,  as your worship shall know by this honest old man; and ,  though I say it ,  though old man ,  yet ,  poor man ,  my father . 	here is my son ,  sir ,  a poor boy— Not a poor boy ,  sir ,  but the rich Jew's man ,  that would ,  sir , —as my father shall specify— He has a great infection ,  sir ,  as one would say ,  to serve— Indeed the short and the long is ,  I serve the Jew ,  and have a desire ,  as my father shall specify— His master and he ,  God save you ,  sir ,  are almost like cousins— To be brief ,  the very truth is that the Jew ,  having done me wrong ,  causes me , —as my father ,  being I hope an old man ,  shall frutify to you— I have here a dish of doves that I wish to give you ,  sir; and what I want is— In very brief ,  what he asks is impertinent to myself ,  as you ,  sir ,  shall know from this honest old man; and ,  though I say it ,  though old man ,  yet poor man ,  my father . 
one speak for both:—what would you ? 	one of you speak for both of you . 
that is the very defect of the matter ,  sir . 	that is the very defect of the matter ,  sir . 
the old proverb is very well parted between my master Shylock and you ,  sir; you have the grace of God ,  sir ,  and he hath enough . 	the old proverb is very well parted between my master Shylock and you ,  sir: you have the grace of God ,  sir ,  and he has enough . 
thou speak'st it well . 	you speak well . 
If any man in Italy have a fairer table ,  which doth offer to swear upon a book ,  I shall have good fortune ! 	well; if any man in Italy has a better table that offers to swear on a book ,  I shall have good luck . 
here's a small trifle of wives: alas ,  fifteen wives is nothing; aleven widows and nine maids ,  is a simple coming - in for one man: and then ,  to 'scape drowning thrice; and to be in peril of my life with the edge of a feather bed; here are simple 'scapes ! 	and then to escape drowning three times ,  and to be in fear for my life with the edge of a feather bed; here are simple escapes . 
well ,  if fortune be a woman ,  she's a good wench for this gear . —Father ,  come . 	well ,  if Fortune is a woman ,  she's a good woman for this guy . 
I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling of an eye . 	father ,  come; I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling of an eye . 
my best endeavours shall be done herein . 	you have my best efforts to get everything done as you ask . 
where's your master ? 	where's your master ? 
yonder ,  sir ,  he walks . 	over there ,  sir ,  he’s walking . 
signior Bassanio , — Gratiano ! 	mr .  Bassanio ! — Gratiano ! 
I have a suit to you . 	I have to ask you something . 
you have obtain'd it . 	you’ve got it . 
signior Bassanio ,  hear me: If I do not put on a sober habit ,  Talk with respect ,  and swear but now and then ,  Wear prayer - books in my pocket ,  look demurely; Nay more ,  while grace is saying ,  hood mine eyes Thus with my hat ,  and sigh ,  and say Amen; Use all the observance of civility ,  Like one well studied in a sad ostent To please his grandam , —never trust me more . 	mr .  Bassanio ,  listen to me: If I don’t put on a sober habit ,  Talk with respect ,  and swear only now and then ,  Wear prayer - books in my pocket ,  look demurely ,  No more ,  while grace is saying ,  hood my eyes Like this with my hat ,  and sigh ,  and say  “ amen; ”  Use all the observances of manners ,  As one well studied in a sad display in order To please his grandmother ,  never trust me anymore . 
well ,  we shall see your bearing . 	well ,  we’ll see your behavior . 
nay ,  but I bar to - night; you shall not gage me By what we do to - night . 	no ,  but tonight is an exception; you shall not judge me By what we do tonight . 
no ,  that were pity; I would entreat you rather to put on Your boldest suit of mirth ,  for we have friends That purpose merriment . 	no ,  that would be a pity; I would beg you rather to put on Your boldest face of happiness ,  because we have friends That offer merriment . 
but fare you well ,  I have some business . 	but goodbye; I have some business to see to . 
and I must to Lorenzo and the rest; But we will visit you at supper - time . 	and I must go to Lorenzo and the rest; But we’ll visit you at suppertime . 
I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so; Our house is hell ,  and thou ,  a merry devil ,  Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness: But fare thee well: there is a ducat for thee . 	I am sorry that you will leave my father like this: Our house is hell ,  and you ,  a happy devil ,  Robbed it of some taste of boredom . 
adieu ! —tears exhibit my tongue . 	tears exhibit my voice . 
most beautiful pagan , —most sweet Jew ! 	most beautiful pagan ,  most sweet Jew ! 
If a Christian did not play the knave and get thee ,  I am much deceived . 	If a Christian doesn’t play the rogue and get you ,  I am much deceived . 
but ,  adieu ! 	but ,  goodbye ! 
these foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit: adieu ! 	these foolish drops drown my manly spirit somewhat; goodbye ! 
farewell ,  good Launcelot . 	goodbye ,  good Launcelot . 
alack ,  what heinous sin is it in me ,  To be asham'd to be my father's child ! 	It’s a pity ,  what hateful sin it is in me To be ashamed to be my father's child ! 
If thou keep promise ,  I shall end this strife; Become a Christian ,  and thy loving wife . 	If you keep your promise ,  I shall end this strife ,  Become a Christian and your loving wife . 
nay ,  we will slink away in supper - time ,  Disguise us at my lodging ,  and return ,  All in an hour . 	no ,  we’ll slink away at suppertime ,  Disguise ourselves at my house ,  and return All in an hour . 
we have not made good preparation . 	we haven’t made a good preparation . 
we have not spoke us yet of torchbearers . 	we haven’t spoken about the torchbearers yet . 
tis vile ,  unless it may be quaintly ordered ,  And better ,  in my mind ,  not undertook . 	It’s nasty ,  unless they may be skillfully ordered ,  And I think it’s better not to be undertaken . 
an it shall please you to break up this ,  it shall seem to signify . 	If you will please break this up ,  it will become clear . 
I know the hand: in faith ,  'tis a fair hand; And whiter than the paper it writ on ,  Is the fair hand that writ . 	I know the hand; in faith ,  it’s a beautiful hand ,  And the beautiful hand that wrote it Is whiter than the paper it’s written on . 
love - news ,  in faith . 	love news ,  in faith . 
by your leave ,  sir . 	excuse me ,  sir . 
whither goest thou ? 	where are you going ? 
marry ,  sir ,  to bid my old master the Jew to sup to - night with my new master the Christian . 	damn it ,  sir ,  to bid my old master ,  the Jew ,  to come to supper tonight with my new master ,  the Christian . 
I am provided of a torch - bearer . 	I have a torchbearer . 
ay ,  marry ,  I'll be gone about it straight . 	yes ,  damn it ,  I'll be taking care of it right away . 
and so will I . 	and so will I . 
meet me and Gratiano ,  At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence . 	meet me and Gratiano At Gratiano's house in about an hour . 
tis good we do so . 	okay . 
was not that letter from fair Jessica ? 	wasn’t that letter from beautiful Jessica ? 
I must needs tell thee all . 	I must tell you everything . 
she hath directed How I shall take her from her father's house; What gold and jewels she is furnish'd with; What page's suit she hath in readiness . 	she has made a plan of How I shall take her from her father's house; What gold and jewels she has; What boy's suit she has ready . 
If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven ,  It will be for his gentle daughter's sake: And never dare misfortune cross her foot ,  Unless she do it under this excuse , — That she is issue to a faithless Jew . 	If the Jew her father ever comes to heaven ,  It will be for his gentle daughter's sake; And never should misfortune dare to cross her foot ,  Unless she does it under this excuse ,  That she is daughter to a faithless Jew . 
come ,  go with me; peruse this as thou goest: Fair Jessica shall be my torchbearer . 	come ,  go with me ,  read this over as you go; Beautiful Jessica shall be my torchbearer . 
quick ,  quick ,  I pray thee ,  draw the curtain straight; The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath ,  And comes to his election presently . 	quickly ,  quickly ,  please ,  draw the curtain right away; The Prince of Aragon has taken his oath ,  And comes to make his choice now . 
behold ,  there stand the caskets ,  noble prince; If you choose that wherein I am contain'd ,  Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemniz'd; But if you fail ,  without more speech ,  my lord ,  You must be gone from hence immediately . 	behold ,  the chests stand there ,  noble Prince: If you choose the one that I am contained in ,  Our marriage vows will be solemnized right away; But if you fail ,  my lord ,  you must be gone from here Immediately without any more talking . 
I am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things: First ,  never to unfold to any one ,  Which casket 'twas I chose; next ,  if I fail Of the right casket ,  never in my life To woo a maid in way of marriage; Lastly ,  If I do fail in fortune of my choice ,  Immediately to leave you ,  and be gone . 	I am required by oath to observe three things: First ,  never to tell anyone Which chest I chose; next ,  if I fail To choose the right chest ,  I will never Court a maid to marry for my whole life; Lastly ,  if I do fail in choosing the right chest ,  I will leave you immediately and be gone . 
to these injunctions every one doth swear ,  That comes to hazard for my worthless self . 	everyone swears to these conditions Who come to take a chance for my worthless self . 
what says the golden chest ? 	what says the golden chest ? 
ha ! 	ha ! 
let me see: Who chooseth me ,  shall gain what many men desire . 	let me see:  “ Who chooses me shall gain what many men desire .  ”  What many men desire ! 
what many men desire . —that many may be meant By the fool multitude ,  that choose by show ,  Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach; Which pries not to th' interior ,  but ,  like the martlet ,  Builds in the weather on the outward wall ,  Even in the force and road of casualty . 	that  “ many ”  may mean The foolish multitudes ,  that choose by outward appearance ,  Not learning any more than their loving eyes teach ,  Which doesn’t go to the inside but ,  like the marten ,  Builds on the outside wall in any weather ,  Even in the force of wind and on the road to ruin . 
I will not choose what many men desire ,  Because I will not jump with common spirits ,  And rank me with the barbarous multitudes . 	I will not choose what many men desire ,  Because I will not jump with common spirits And rank myself with the barbarous multitudes . 
and that clear honour Were purchas'd by the merit of the wearer ! 	that fortunes ,  degrees ,  and offices Were not earned by corruption ,  and that clear honors Were purchased by the merit of the wearer ! 
well ,  but to my choice: Who chooseth me ,  shall get as much as he deserves . 	well ,  to my choice:  “ Who chooses me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”  I will assume I am deserving . 
I will assume desert:—Give me a key for this ,  And instantly unlock my fortunes here . 	give me a key for this ,  And instantly unlock my fortunes here . 
too long a pause for that which you find there . 	that’s too long a pause over what you find there . 
what's here ? 	what's here ? 
the portrait of a blinking idiot ,  Presenting me a schedule ! 	the portrait of a blinking idiot ,  Presenting me a piece of paper ! 
I will read it . 	I will read it . 
how much unlike art thou to Portia ! 	this doesn’t look very much like Portia ! 
Is that my prize ? 	Is that my prize ? 
are my deserts no better ? 	Is my deserving no better than that ? 
to offend ,  and judge ,  are distinct offices ,  And of opposed natures . 	to insult and judge are different things ,  And of opposite natures . 
what is here ? 	what is this here ? 
sweet ,  adieu ! 	sweetheart ,  goodbye ! 
I'll keep my oath ,  Patiently to bear my wroth . 	I'll keep my oath ,  Patiently to deal with my anger . 
thus hath the candle sing'd the moth . 	In this way ,  the candle has burned the moth . 
o these deliberate fools ! 	oh ,  these deliberate fools ! 
when they do choose ,  They have the wisdom by their wit to lose . 	when they choose ,  They have the wisdom to lose by their senses . 
where is my lady ? 	where is my lady ? 
here; what would my lord ? 	I’m here; what do you want ? 
no more ,  I pray thee; I am half afeard ,  Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee ,  Thou spend'st such high - day wit in praising him . 	no more ,  please; I am half afraid You will now say he is related to you ,  You spend such so many words in praising him . 
come ,  come ,  Nerissa; for I long to see Quick Cupid's post that comes so mannerly . 	come ,  come ,  Nerissa ,  because I long to see Quick Cupid's messenger that comes so politely . 
bassanio ,  lord Love ,  if thy will it be . 	bassanio ,  lord Love ,  if it is your will ! 
well ,  thou shalt see ,  thy eyes shall be thy judge ,  The difference of old Shylock and Bassanio:— What ,  Jessica ! —thou shalt not gormandise ,  As thou hast done with me;—What ,  Jessica ! — And sleep ,  and snore ,  and rend apparel out;— Why ,  Jessica ,  I say ! 	well ,  you shall see; your eyes shall be your judge ,  The difference of old Shylock and Bassanio:— What ,  Jessica ! —You won’t eat like a glutton ,  As you have done with me;—What ,  Jessica ! — And sleep and snore ,  and tear clothes apart— Why ,  Jessica ,  I say ! 
why ,  Jessica ! 	why ,  Jessica ! 
who bids thee call ? 	who called for you ? 
I do not bid thee call . 	I didn’t call for you . 
your worship was wont to tell me ,  I could do nothing without bidding . 	you ,  sir ,  always told me I couldn’t do anything without bidding . 
call you ? 	did you call ? 
what is your will ? 	what is it ? 
I am not bid for love; they flatter me: But yet I'll go in hate ,  to feed upon The prodigal Christian . —Jessica ,  my girl ,  Look to my house . —I am right loath to go; There is some ill a - brewing towards my rest ,  For I did dream of money - bags to - night . 	I am very reluctant to go; There is some ill disturbing my rest ,  Because I dreamt of moneybags tonight . 
I beseech you ,  sir ,  go; my young master doth expect your reproach . 	please ,  sir ,  go: my young master expects your insult . 
so do I ,  his . 	so I expect his . 
and they have conspired together , —I will not say ,  you shall see a masque; but if you do ,  then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a - bleeding on Black -  Monday last ,  at six o'clock i' the morning ,  falling out that year on Ash - Wednesday was four year in the afternoon . 	and they have conspired together; I’ll not say you shall see a party ,  but if you do ,  then it was not for nothing that my nose started bleeding on last Black Monday at six o'clock in the morning ,  falling out that year on Ash - Wednesday was four years in the afternoon . 
what ! 	what ! 
are there masques ? 	are there parties ? 
hear you me ,  Jessica: Lock up my doors; and when you hear the drum ,  And the vile squealing of the wry - neck'd fife ,  Clamber not you up to the casements then ,  Nor thrust your head into the public street ,  To gaze on Christian fools with varnish'd faces: But stop my house's ears ,  I mean my casements; Let not the sound of shallow foppery enter My sober house . —By Jacob's staff I swear ,  I have no mind of feasting forth to - night: But I will go . —Go you before me ,  sirrah; Say ,  I will come . 	listen to me ,  Jessica: Lock up my doors ,  and when you hear the drum ,  And the vile squealing of the long - necked pipe ,  Don’t run up to the windows then ,  Or thrust your head into the public street To gaze on Christian fools with varnished masks; But stop my house's ears -  I mean my windows; Don’t let the sound of shallow foolishness enter My sober house . 
what says that fool of Hagar's offspring; ha ? 	what says that fool of Hagar's offspring ,  huh ? 
his words were ,  Farewell mistress; nothing else . 	his words were ,   “ Goodbye ,  mistress ,  ”  nothing else . 
farewell; and if my fortune be not cross'd ,  I have a father ,  you a daughter ,  lost . 	goodbye; and ,  if my fortune is not crossed ,  I have lost a father ,  and you a daughter . 
this is the pent - house ,  under which Lorenzo Desir'd us to make stand . 	this is the house where Lorenzo Wanted us to wait . 
his hour is almost past . 	he’s almost late . 
and it is marvel he out - dwells his hour ,  For lovers ever run before the clock . 	and it’s a wonder that he’s late ,  Because lovers always keep ahead of the clock . 
that ever holds: who riseth from a feast With that keen appetite that he sits down ? 	that’s true: who gets up from a feast With the same hunger that he had when he sat down ? 
where is the horse that doth untread again ,  His tedious measures with the unbated fire ,  That he did pace them first ? 	where is the horse that retraces his boring steps again With the same fire That he walked them in the first place ? 
all things that are ,  Are with more spirit chased than enjoy'd . 	all things that exist Are sought for with more spirit than the spirit to enjoy them . 
how like a younger ,  or a prodigal ,  The scarfed bark puts from her native bay ,  Hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind ! 	how the sailing ship leaves her native port Like a youngster or a spendthrift Hugged and embraced by the prostitute wind ! 
how like a prodigal doth she return; With over - weather'd ribs ,  and ragged sails ,  Lean ,  rent ,  and beggar'd by the strumpet wind ! 	how she returns like the spendthrift ,  With weather - beaten sides and ragged sails ,  Thin ,  torn ,  and destitute by the prostitute wind ! 
here comes Lorenzo;—more of this hereafter . 	here comes Lorenzo; more about this later . 
sweet friends ,  your patience for my long abode: Not I ,  but my affairs ,  have made you wait: When you shall please to play the thieves for wives ,  I'll watch as long for you then . —Approach; Here dwells my father Jew . —Ho ! 	sweet friends ,  I’m sorry I’m late; Not I ,  but my affairs ,  have made you wait: When you are ready to do anything to get wives ,  I'll watch as long for you then . 
who's within ? 	who's in there ? 
who are you ? 	who are you ? 
tell me ,  for more certainty ,  Albeit I'll swear that I do know your tongue . 	tell me ,  just to be sure ,  Even though I'll swear that I know your voice . 
lorenzo ,  and thy love . 	lorenzo ,  and your love . 
lorenzo ,  certain; and my love ,  indeed; For who love I so much ? 	lorenzo ,  to be sure and my love indeed ,  Because who do love I so much ? 
and now ,  who knows But you ,  Lorenzo ,  whether I am yours ? 	and now ,  who knows But you ,  Lorenzo ,  whether I am yours ? 
heaven ,  and thy thoughts ,  are witness that thou art . 	heaven and your thoughts are witnesses that you are . 
here ,  catch this casket; it is worth the pains . 	here ,  catch this chest; it is worth the trouble . 
I am glad 'tis night ,  you do not look on me ,  For I am much asham'd of my exchange: But love is blind ,  and lovers cannot see The pretty follies that themselves commit; For if they could ,  Cupid himself would blush ,  To see me thus transformed to a boy . 	I am glad it’s night so that you can’t see me ,  Because I am very ashamed of my costume; But love is blind ,  and lovers cannot see The pretty mischief that they themselves commit ,  Because ,  if they could ,  Cupid himself would blush To see me transformed to a boy like this . 
descend ,  for you must be my torchbearer . 	go down ,  because you must be carry my torch . 
they in themselves ,  good - sooth ,  are too - too light . 	they in themselves ,  to tell the truth ,  are as light as a flute . 
why ,  'tis an office of discovery ,  love; And I should be obscur'd . 	why ,  light is a function of discovering things ,  love ,  And I should be hidden . 
so are you ,  sweet ,  Even in the lovely garnish of a boy . 	and you are hidden ,  sweetheart ,  Even in the lovely garments of a boy . 
but come at once; For the close night doth play the run - away ,  And we are stay'd for at Bassanio's feast . 	but come at once ,  Because the night is running away ,  And we are waited for at Bassanio's feast . 
I will make fast the doors ,  and gild myself With some more ducats ,  and be with you straight . 	I’ll secure the doors ,  and cover myself With some more dollars ,  and I’ll be with you right away . 
now ,  by my hood ,  a Gentile and no Jew . 	now ,  I swear ,  she is a Gentile and no Jew . 
beshrew me ,  but I love her heartily: For she is wise ,  if I can judge of her; And fair she is ,  if that mine eyes be true; And true she is ,  as she hath prov'd herself; And therefore ,  like herself ,  wise ,  fair ,  and true ,  Shall she be placed in my constant soul . 	curse me ,  but I love her heartily; Because she is wise ,  if I can judge her ,  And she is beautiful ,  if my eyes can really see ,  And she is true ,  as she has proved herself; And so ,  like herself ,  wise ,  beautiful ,  and true ,  She shall be placed in my faithful soul . 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
signior Antonio ! 	mr .  Antonio ! 
where are all the rest ? 	where are all the rest ? 
I am glad on't; I desire no more delight ,  Than to be under sail and gone to - night . 	I am glad about it: I don’t want anything more Than to get sailing and be gone tonight . 
the one of them contains my picture ,  prince; If you choose that ,  then I am yours withal . 	one of them contains my picture ,  prince; If you choose that ,  then I am yours as well . 
some god direct my judgment ! 	some god direct my judgment ! 
let me see . 	let me see; I’ll look over the inscriptions again . 
for lead ? 	for lead ? 
hazard for lead ? 	gamble for lead ! 
this casket threatens: Men that hazard all Do it in hope of fair advantages: A golden mind stoops not to shows of dross; I'll then nor give ,  nor hazard ,  aught for lead . 	this chest threatens; men that gamble everything Do it in hope of a better advantage: A golden mind doesn’t stoop to shows of scum; Then I won’t give or gamble anything for lead . 
what says the silver ,  with her virgin hue ? 	what does the silver say ,  with her virgin color ? 
who chooseth me ,  shall get as much as he deserves . 	who chooses me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”  As much as he deserves ! 
what if I strayed no further ,  but chose here ? — Let's see once more this saying grav'd in gold: Who chooseth me ,  shall gain what many men desire . 	what if I didn’t go any farther ,  and chose right here ? 
one of these three contains her heavenly picture . 	one of these three chests contains her heavenly picture . 
Is't like that lead contains her ? 	Is it likely that the lead one holds her picture ? 
twere damnation To think so base a thought: it were too gross To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave . 	It’s damnation To think such a low thought; it’s too gross Even to be used as her shroud in the obscure grave . 
or shall I think in silver she's immur'd ,  Being ten times undervalued to tried gold ? 	or shall I think she's enclosed in the walls of this silver one ,  Being worth ten times less than traditional gold ? 
o sinful thought ! 	oh ,  sinful thought ! 
never so rich a gem Was set in worse than gold . 	there never was so rich a gem Set in something worse than gold . 
there ,  take it ,  prince ,  and if my form lie there ,  Then I am yours . 	there ,  take it ,  prince ,  and if my picture lies there ,  Then I am yours . 
he unlocks the golden casket] [He unlocks the golden casket] O hell ! 	oh ,  hell ! 
what have we here ? 	what have we here ? 
a carrion Death ,  within whose empty eye There is a written scroll ? 	a skull ,  whose empty eye has A written scroll in it ! 
I'll read the writing . 	I'll read the writing . 
all that glisters is not gold ,  Often have you heard that told: Many a man his life hath sold ,  But my outside to behold: Gilded tombs do worms enfold . 	everything that glitters is not gold ,  Often have you heard that told; Many a man has sold his life Just to look at my outside: Gilded tombs wrap around worms . 
why ,  man ,  I saw Bassanio under sail; With him is Gratiano gone along; And in their ship ,  I am sure ,  Lorenzo is not . 	why ,  man ,  I saw Bassanio sailing away; Gratiano has gone along with him; And I am sure Lorenzo is not on their ship . 
the law ! 	the law ! 
my ducats ,  and my daughter ! 	my dollars and my daughter ! 
a sealed bag ,  two sealed bags of ducats ,  Of double ducats ,  stol'n from me by my daughter ! 	a sealed bag ,  two sealed bags of dollars ,  Of double dollars ,  stolen from me by my daughter ! 
find the girl ! 	find the girl ! 
you were best to tell Antonio what you hear; Yet do not suddenly ,  for it may grieve him . 	you’d better tell Antonio what you heard; still ,  don’t tell Him without warning because it may be too painful . 
a kinder gentleman treads not the earth . 	a kinder gentleman does not walk on the earth . 
I saw Bassanio and Antonio part: Bassanio told him ,  he would make some speed Of his return; he answer'd—Do not so ,  Slubber not business for my sake ,  Bassanio ,  But stay the very riping of the time; And for the Jew's bond ,  which he hath of me ,  Let it not enter in your mind of love: Be merry; and employ your chiefest thoughts To courtship ,  and such fair ostents of love ,  As shall conveniently become you there: And even there ,  his eye being big with tears ,  Turning his face ,  he put his hand behind him ,  And ,  with affection wondrous sensible ,  He wrung Bassanio's hand ,  and so they parted . 	he answered 'Don’t hurry back; Don’t be careless with business for my sake ,  Bassanio ,  But wait until your plans are realized; And for the Jew's promise to pay which he has from me ,  Don’t let it enter your mind ,  thinking about love: Be happy ,  and use your main thoughts For courtship ,  and such beautiful shows of love That may agree with you there .  ”  And even there ,  his eyes being big with tears ,  Turning his face away ,  he put his hands behind him ,  And with affection that was amazingly easy to feel ,  He shook and shook Bassanio's hand ,  and they parted like that . 
I think he only loves the world for him . 	I think Antonio only loves the world for him . 
I pray thee ,  let us go and find him out ,  And quicken his embraced heaviness ,  With some delight or other . 	please ,  let’s go and find out where he is ,  And help burn up his tangled depression With some delight or other . 
do we so . 	let’s do it . 
now ,  what news on the Rialto ? 	now ,  what’s the news in the Marketplace ? 
why ,  yet it lives there unchecked that Antonio hath a ship of rich lading wrack'd on the narrow seas , —the Goodwins ,  I think they call the place; a very dangerous flat ,  and fatal ,  where the carcasses of many a tall ship lie buried ,  as they say ,  if my gossip report ,  be an honest woman of her word . 	why ,  the rumors are all saying that Antonio has a ship of rich cargo wrecked on the narrow seas; I think they call the place the Goodwins ,  a very dangerous ,  flat ,  and fatal place ,  where the dead bodies of many tall ships are buried ,  as they say ,  if my gossip reporter is an honest woman of her word . 
I would she were as lying a gossip in that ,  as ever knapped ginger ,  or made her neighbours believe she wept for the death of a third husband . 	I wish she were as lying a gossip in that as ever knapped ginger or made her neighbors believe she wept for the death of a third husband . 
but it is true , —without any slips of prolixity ,  or crossing the plain highway of talk , —that the good Antonio ,  the honest Antonio , —O that I had a title good enough to keep his name company ! — Come ,  the full stop . 	but it is true , —without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk , —that the good Antonio ,  the honest Antonio , —Oh ,  that I had a title good enough to keep his name company ! — Come ,  the whole story . 
I would it might prove the end of his losses ! 	I wish it might prove the end of his losses . 
what news among the merchants ? 	what’s the news among the merchants ? 
you knew ,  none so well ,  none so well as you ,  of my daughter's flight . 	you knew ,  none so well ,  none so well as you ,  of my daughter's flight . 
and Shylock ,  for his own part ,  knew the bird was fledged; and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam . 	and Shylock ,  for his own part ,  knew the bird was ready to fly; and then it is the nature of them all to leave the nest . 
she is damn'd for it . 	she is damned for it . 
that's certain ,  if the devil may be her judge . 	that’s true ,  if the devil may be her judge . 
my own flesh and blood to rebel ! 	my own flesh and blood to rebel ! 
out upon it ,  old carrion ! 	damn it ,  old dead man ! 
rebels it at these years ? 	It rebels at this age ? 
I say ,  my daughter is my flesh and blood . 	I say my daughter is my flesh and my blood . 
to bait fish withal: if it will feed nothing else ,  it will feed my revenge . 	to bait fish with: if it feeds nothing else ,  it will feed my revenge . 
If you prick us ,  do we not bleed ? 	If you stick us ,  don’t we bleed ? 
if you tickle us ,  do we not laugh ? 	If you tickle us ,  don’t we laugh ? 
if you poison us ,  do we not die ? 	If you poison us ,  don’t we die ? 
and if you wrong us ,  shall we not revenge ? 	and if you wrong us ,  shouldn’t we seek revenge ? 
If we are like you in the rest ,  we will resemble you in that . 	If we are like you in the rest ,  we’ll resemble you in that . 
If a Jew wrong a Christian ,  what is his humility ? 	If a Jew wrongs a Christian ,  what is his option ? 
revenge . 	revenge . 
If a Christian wrong a Jew ,  what should his sufferance be by Christian example ? 	If a Christian wrongs a Jew ,  what should his choice be by Christian example ? 
why ,  revenge . 	why ,  revenge . 
the villany you teach me I will execute; and it shall go hard but I will better the instruction . 	the villainy you teach me I’ll use; and it shall be hard but I’ll make the lesson better . 
gentlemen ,  my master Antonio is at his house ,  and desires to speak with you both . 	gentlemen ,  my master Antonio is at his house ,  and wants to speak with both of you . 
we have been up and down to seek him . 	we have been up and down looking for him . 
here comes another of the tribe; a third cannot be matched ,  unless the devil himself turn Jew . 	here comes another Jew: we cannot Match them ,  unless the devil himself turn Jew . 
hast thou found my daughter ? 	have you found my daughter ? 
I often came where I did hear of her ,  but cannot find her . 	I often came to places where I heard of her ,  but I cannot find her . 
why ,  there ,  there ,  there ,  there ! 	why there ,  there ,  there ,  there ! 
a diamond gone ,  cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfort ! 	a diamond gone ,  cost me two thousand dollars in Frankfort ! 
would she were hearsed at my foot ,  and the ducats in her coffin ! 	I wish my daughter were dead at my foot ,  and the jewels in her ear; I wish she were trained at my feet ,  and the dollars in her coffin ! 
why ,  thou loss upon loss ! 	why ,  you—loss on loss ! 
the thief gone with so much ,  and so much to find the thief; and no satisfaction ,  no revenge: nor no ill luck stirring but what lights o' my shoulders; no sighs but o' my breathing: no tears but o' my shedding . 	the thief gone with so much ,  and so much to find the thief; and no satisfaction ,  no revenge; or only bad luck stirring and sits on my shoulders; no sighs except the ones I’m breathing; no tears except the ones I’m shedding . 
yes ,  other men have ill luck too . 	yes ,  other men have bad luck too . 
antonio ,  as I heard in Genoa , — What ,  what ,  what ? 	antonio ,  as I heard in Genoa , — What ,  what ,  what ? 
ill luck ,  ill luck ? 	bad luck ,  bad luck ? 
hath an argosy cast away ,  coming from Tripolis . 	has his largest ship lost ,  coming from Tripolis . 
is it true ? 	Is it true ,  is it true ? 
I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack . 	I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck . 
ha ! —Where ? 	where ? 
in Genoa ? 	in Genoa ? 
your daughter spent in Genoa ,  as I heard ,  one night ,  fourscore ducats ! 	your daughter spent ,  as I heard ,  one night ,  in Genoa eighty dollars . 
fourscore ducats ! 	eighty dollars ! 
there came divers of Antonio's creditors in my company to Venice ,  that swear he cannot choose but break . 	many of Antonio's creditors came with me to Venice ,  swearing he can only go broke . 
I am very glad of it: I'll plague him; I'll torture Him; I am glad of it . 	I am very glad of it; I'll plague him ,  I'll torture him; I am glad of it . 
one of them showed me a ring ,  that he had of your daughter for a monkey . 	one of them showed me a ring that he accepted from your daughter as payment for a monkey . 
out upon her ! 	damn her ! 
thou torturest me ,  Tubal: it was my turquoise: I had it of Leah ,  when I was a bachelor: I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys . 	you torture me ,  Tubal: It was my turquoise ring; I got from Leah ,  my wife ,  when I was still single; I wouldn’t have traded it for a wilderness of monkeys . 
but Antonio is certainly undone . 	but Antonio is certainly bankrupt . 
nay ,  that's true ,  that's very true . 	no ,  that's true; that's very true . 
go ,  Tubal ,  fee me an officer ,  bespeak him a fortnight before: I will have the heart of him ,  if he forfeit; forwere he out of Venice ,  I can make what merchandise I will . 	I’ll have his heart ,  if he defaults; because ,  if he were out of business in Venice ,  I can make whatever deals I want to . 
go ,  Tubal ,  and meet me at our synagogue; go ,  good Tubal; at our synagogue ,  Tubal . 	go ,  Tubal ,  and meet me at our synagogue; go ,  good Tubal; at our synagogue ,  Tubal . 
I could teach you How to choose right ,  but then I am forsworn; So will I never be: so may you miss me; But if you do ,  you'll make me wish a sin ,  That I had been forsworn . 	I could teach you How to choose right ,  but then I’m breaking my oath; I’ll never do that; you may not win me; And if you don’t ,  you'll make me wish I had sinned ,  That I had broken my oath . 
beshrew your eyes ,  They have o'erlook'd me ,  and divided me; One half of me is yours ,  the other half yours , — Mine own ,  I would say; but if mine ,  then yours ,  And so ,  all yours: O ! 	curse your eyes ,  They have looked me over and divided me: One half of me is yours ,  the other half is also yours ,  My own love ,  I would say; but if my love ,  then yours ,  And so everything yours . 
let me choose; For ,  as I am ,  I live upon the rack . 	let me choose; Because as I am ,  I live in torture . 
upon the rack ,  Bassanio ? 	In torture ,  Bassanio ! 
then confess What treason there is mingled with your love . 	then confess What evil is there mingled with your love . 
none ,  but that ugly treason of mistrust ,  Which makes me fear the enjoying of my love: There may as well be amity and life 'Tween snow and fire ,  as treason and my love . 	none but that ugly evil of mistrust ,  Which makes me fear the enjoying of my love: There may as well be friendship and life Between snow and fire as evil and my love . 
ay ,  but I fear you speak upon the rack ,  Where men enforced do speak anything . 	yes ,  but I’m afraid you speak out of torture ,  Where men will say anything . 
well ,  then ,  confess ,  and live . 	well then ,  confess and live . 
confess ,  and love ,  Had been the very sum of my confession: O happy torment ,  when my torturer Doth teach me answers for deliverance ! 	confess ”  and  “ love ”  Have been the very sum of my confession: Oh ,  happy torment ,  when my torturer Teaches me answers for escape from evil ! 
but let me to my fortune and the caskets . 	but let me go to my fortune and the chests . 
he may win; And what is music then ? 	he may win; And what is music then ? 
then music is Even as the flourish ,  when true subjects bow To a new - crowned monarch: such it is ,  As are those dulcet sounds in break of day ,  That creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear ,  And summon him to marriage . 	then music is Sounds as the trumpets when true subjects bow To a new - crowned king; music is Those sweet sounds at sunrise That creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear And summon him to marriage . 
now he goes ,  With no less presence ,  but with much more love ,  Than young Alcides ,  when he did redeem The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy To the sea - monster: I stand for sacrifice ,  The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives ,  With bleared visages ,  come forth to view The issue of the exploit . 	now he goes ,  With no less confidence ,  but with much more love ,  Than young Alcides went to redeem The sacrifice of young women made by howling Troy To the sea - monster: I stand for sacrifice; The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives ,  With tear - stained faces coming out to view The outcome of the event . 
go ,  Hercules ! 	go ,  Hercules ! 
tell me where is fancy bred ,  Or in the heart ,  or in the head ? 	tell me where is fancy bred ,  In the heart or in the head ,  How begot ,  how nourished ? 
how begot ,  how nourished ? 	answer; answer . 
ding ,  dong ,  bell . 	ding ,  dong ,  bell . 
so may the outward shows be least themselves; The world is still deceiv'd with ornament . 	these chests may not be what they seem outside: The world is still tricked by ornament . 
In law ,  what plea so tainted and corrupt ,  But ,  being season'd with a gracious voice ,  Obscures the show of evil ? 	In law ,  what plea is so tainted and corrupt That ,  being delivered with a gracious voice ,  Obscures the evil underneath ? 
In religion ,  What damned error ,  but some sober brow Will bless it ,  and approve it with a text ,  Hiding the grossness with fair ornament ? 	In religion ,  What damned error is there that some sober face Will bless it ,  and approve it with a text ,  Hiding the grossness with a beautiful ornament ? 
there is no vice so simple ,  but assumes Some mark of virtue on his outward parts . 	there is no vice so simple that it takes on Some mark of virtue on outside . 
thus ornament is but the guiled shore To a most dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word ,  The seeming truth which cunning times put on To entrap the wisest . 	thus decoration is only the deceived shore To a most dangerous sea; the beautiful scarf Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word ,  The seeming truth which skillful times dress in To fool the wisest men . 
how all the other passions fleet to air ,  As ,  doubtful thoughts ,  and rash - embrac'd despair ,  And shudd'ring fear ,  and green - eyed jealousy . 	how all the other passions fly to the air ,  As doubtful thoughts ,  and rash - embraced despair ,  And shuddering fear ,  and green - eyed jealousy ! 
o Love ,  be moderate . 	oh ,  love ! 
what find I here ? 	what do I find here ? 
fair Portia's counterfeit ? 	beautiful Portia's picture ! 
what demi - god Hath come so near creation ? 	what minor god Has come so near to making a woman ? 
move these eyes ? 	do these eyes move ? 
here in her hairs ,  The painter plays the spider; and hath woven A golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men ,  Faster than gnats in cobwebs: but her eyes , — How could he see to do them ? 	here The painter plays the spider in her hair ,  and has woven A golden mesh to capture the hearts of men Faster than gnats are caught in cobwebs: but her eyes ! — How could he see to do them ? 
you that choose not by the view ,  Chance as fair ,  and choose as true ! 	you that choose not by looks ,  Gamble as fair and choose as true ! 
since this fortune falls to you ,  Be content ,  and seek no new . 	since this fortune falls to you ,  Be content and seek no other new one . 
If you be well pleas'd with this ,  And hold your fortune for your bliss ,  Turn you where your lady is ,  And claim her with a loving kiss . 	If you are well pleased with this ,  And hold your fortune for your bliss ,  Turn to where your lady is And claim her with a loving kiss .  ”  A gentle scroll . 
a gentle scroll . —Fair lady ,  by your leave: I come by note ,  to give and to receive . 	beautiful lady ,  excuse me; I come off to the side ,  to give and to receive . 
like one of two contending in a prize ,  That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes ,  Hearing applause and universal shout ,  Giddy in spirit ,  still gazing in a doubt Whether those peals of praise be his or no; So ,  thrice fair lady ,  stand I ,  even so; As doubtful whether what I see be true ,  Until confirm'd ,  sign'd ,  ratified by you . 	like one of two contenders for a prize ,  That thinks he has done well in people's eyes ,  Hearing applause and universal shout ,  Giddy in spirit ,  still gazing in a doubt Whether those peals of praise are his or not; So ,  three times beautiful lady ,  I stand I ,  even like this ,  As doubtful of whether what I see is true ,  Until it is confirmed ,  signed ,  and ratified by you . 
madam ,  you have bereft me of all words; Only my blood speaks to you in my veins ,  And there is such confusion in my powers ,  As ,  after some oration fairly spoke By a beloved prince ,  there doth appear Among the buzzing pleased multitude; Where every something ,  being blent together ,  Turns to a wild of nothing ,  save of joy ,  Express'd and not express'd . 	madam ,  you have made me speechless ,  Only my blood in my veins speaks to you ,  And I am so confused Just as there appears buzzing among a happy crowd After a well given speech By a beloved prince; Where every piece ,  blended together ,  Turns to something wild ,  expressed and not expressed ,  Except for joy . 
but when this ring Parts from this finger ,  then parts life from hence; O ,  then be bold to say ,  Bassanio's dead . 	but when this ring Parts from this finger ,  then life parts from my body: Oh ! 
my lord and lady ,  it is now our time ,  That have stood by ,  and seen our wishes prosper ,  To cry ,  good joy; Good joy ,  my lord and lady ! 	then you can be strong and say ,   “ Bassanio's dead .  ”  My lord and lady ,  now it’s our turn ,  o cry ,   “ Good joy ,  ”  We who have stood by and seen our wishes for you come true ,  Good joy ,  my lord and lady ! 
my lord Bassanio ,  and my gentle lady ,  I wish you all the joy that you can wish; For I am sure you can wish none from me: And ,  when your honours mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith ,  I do beseech you ,  Even at that time I may be married too . 	my Lord Bassanio ,  and my gentle lady ,  I wish you all the joy that you can wish for yourselves; Because I am sure you can’t wish any from me; And when you two mean to make The bargain of your vows solemn ,  please ,  Even then ,  let me be married too . 
with all my heart ,  so thou canst get a wife . 	with all my heart ,  if you can get a wife . 
I thank your lordship ,  you have got me one . 	I thank you sir ,  you have gotten me one . 
your fortune stood upon the caskets there ,  And so did mine too ,  as the matter falls: For wooing here ,  until I sweat again ,  And swearing until my very roof was dry With oaths of love ,  at last , —if promise last , — I got a promise of this fair one here ,  To have her love ,  provided that your fortune Achiev'd her mistress . 	your fortune stood on the chests there ,  And so did mine ,  as it works out; Because courting here until I worked up a sweat ,  And swearing promises until my mouth was dry With oaths of love ,  at last ,  if her promise lasts ,  I got a promise of this beautiful one here To have her love ,  provided that you were Lucky enough to get her mistress . 
Is this true ,  Nerissa ? 	Is this true ,  Nerissa ? 
madam ,  it is ,  so you stand pleas'd withal . 	madam ,  it is ,  as long as you are pleased with the rest of it . 
and do you ,  Gratiano ,  mean good faith ? 	and you ,  Gratiano ,  are you sincere ? 
yes faith ,  my lord . 	yes ,  in faith ,  my lord . 
our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage . 	our feast shall be very honored by your marriage . 
we'll play with them ,  the first boy for a thousand ducats . 	we'll bet them who has the first boy for a thousand dollars . 
no; we shall ne'er win at that sport ,  and stake down . 	no; we shall never win a bet at that sport . 
but who comes here ? 	but who comes here ? 
lorenzo and his infidel ? 	lorenzo and his infidel ? 
what ,  and my old Venetian friend ,  Salerio ? 	what ,  and my old Venetian friend ,  Salanio ! 
so do I ,  my lord . 	so do I ,  my lord; They are entirely welcome . 
they are entirely welcome . 	I thank you ,  sir . 
I thank your honour . —For my part ,  my lord ,  My purpose was not to have seen you here; But meeting with Salerio by the way ,  He did entreat me ,  past all saying nay ,  To come with him along . 	for my part ,  my lord ,  I didn’t intend to see you here; But ,  meeting with Salanio by the way ,  He begged me ,  past all saying no ,  To come along with him . 
I did ,  my lord ,  And I have reason for it . 	I did ,  my lord ,  And I have reason for it . 
signior Antonio Commends him to you . 	mr .  Antonio Send you his regards . 
ere I ope his letter ,  I pray you tell me how my good friend doth . 	before I open his letter ,  Please tell me how my good friend is doing . 
not sick ,  my lord ,  unless it be in mind; Nor well ,  unless in mind: his letter there Will show you his estate . 	he’s not sick ,  my lord ,  unless it’s in his mind; But he’s not well ,  unless in his mind; his letter there Will show you his state of affairs . 
nerissa ,  cheer yon stranger; bid her welcome . 	nerissa ,  cheer the stranger; say hello to her . 
your hand ,  Salerio . 	let me shake your hand ,  Salanio . 
what's the news from Venice ? 	what's the news from Venice ? 
how doth that royal merchant ,  good Antonio ? 	how is that royal merchant ,  good Antonio ? 
I know he will be glad of our success; We are the Jasons ,  we have won the fleece . 	I know he will be happy at our success: We are the Jasons ,  we have won the fleece . 
I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost ! 	I wish you had won the fleece that he has lost . 
there are some shrewd contents in yon same paper ,  That steals the colour from Bassanio's cheek; Some dear friend dead; else nothing in the world Could turn so much the constitution Of any constant man . 	there are some harsh contents in that letter That steal the color from Bassanio's cheeks: Some dear friend is dead ,  or nothing else in the world Could change the constitution so much Of any constant man . 
when I told you My state was nothing ,  I should then have told you That I was worse than nothing; for ,  indeed ,  I have engag'd myself to a dear friend ,  Engag'd my friend to his mere enemy ,  To feed my means . 	when I told you That I had nothing ,  I should have told you then That I had less than nothing ,  because indeed I have indebted myself to a dear friend ,  Indebted my friend to his notorious enemy ,  To feed my needs . 
here is a letter ,  lady; The paper as the body of my friend ,  And every word in it a gaping wound ,  Issuing life - blood . 	here is a letter ,  lady ,  The paper is like the body of my friend ,  And every word in it ,  a gaping wound Bleeding heavily . 
but is it true ,  Salerio ? 	but is it true ,  Salanio ? 
have all his ventures fail'd ? 	have all his ventures failed ? 
what ,  not one hit ? 	what ,  not one came in ? 
from Tripolis ,  from Mexico ,  and England ,  From Lisbon ,  Barbary ,  and India ? 	from Tripolis ,  from Mexico ,  and England ,  From Lisbon ,  Barbary ,  and India ? 
and not one vessel 'scape the dreadful touch Of merchant - marring rocks ? 	and not one vessel escaped the dreadful touch Of the rocks that can break a merchant ? 
not one ,  my lord . 	not one ,  my lord . 
besides ,  it should appear ,  that if he had The present money to discharge the Jew ,  He would not take it . 	besides ,  it seems that ,  even if he had The money right now to pay the Jew ,  He wouldn’t take it . 
when I was with him ,  I have heard him swear To Tubal ,  and to Chus ,  his countrymen ,  That he would rather have Antonio's flesh ,  Than twenty times the value of the sum That he did owe him; and I know ,  my lord ,  If law ,  authority ,  and power deny not ,  It will go hard with poor Antonio . 	when I was with him ,  I heard him swear To Tubal and to Chus ,  his countrymen ,  That he would rather have Antonio's flesh Than twenty times the value of the sum That he owed him; and I know ,  my lord ,  If law ,  authority ,  and power ,  don’t deny him ,  It will go hard with poor Antonio . 
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble ? 	Is it your dear friend that is in trouble like this ? 
the dearest friend to me ,  the kindest man ,  The best - condition'd and unwearied spirit In doing courtesies; and one in whom The ancient Roman honour more appears ,  Than any that draws breath in Italy . 	the dearest friend to me ,  the kindest man ,  The best conditioned and unwearied spirit In manners ,  and one in whom The ancient Roman honor appears more Than any man alive in Italy . 
what sum owes he the Jew ? 	how much does he owe the Jew ? 
for me ,  three thousand ducats . 	for me ,  three thousand dollars . 
what ,  no more ? 	what ! 
pay him six thousand ,  and deface the bond; Double six thousand ,  and then treble that ,  Before a friend of this description Shall lose a hair through Bassanio's fault . 	pay him six thousand ,  and destroy the promise to pay; Double six thousand ,  and then treble that ,  Before a friend of this description Loses a hair because of Bassanio . 
first go with me to church ,  and call me wife ,  And then away to Venice to your friend; For never shall you lie by Portia's side With an unquiet soul . 	first go with me to church and marry me ,  And then go away to Venice to your friend; Because you shall never lie by Portia's side With an uneasy soul . 
but let me hear the letter of your friend . 	but let me hear the letter of your friend . 
reads] Sweet Bassanio ,  my ships have all Reads] miscarried ,  my creditors grow cruel ,  my estate is very low ,  my bond to the Jew is forfeit; and since ,  in paying it ,  it is impossible I should live ,  all debts are cleared between you and I ,  if I might but see you at my death; Notwithstanding ,  use your pleasure: if your love do not persuade you to come ,  let not my letter . 	sweet Bassanio ,  my ships have all sunk ,  my creditors grow cruel ,  my funds very low ,  my promise to pay to the Jew is in default; and since ,  in paying it ,  it is impossible for me to live ,  all debts between you and me are canceled if I might only see you at my death . 
since I have your good leave to go away ,  I will make haste: but ,  till I come again ,  No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay ,  Nor rest be interposer 'twixt us twain . 	since I have your permission to go ,  I’ll hurry; but ,  until I come back again ,  I will not sleep ,  And rest will not keep us two apart . 
gaoler ,  look to him . 	jailer ,  look to him . 
tell not me of mercy;— This is the fool that lent out money gratis;— Gaoler ,  look to him . 	don’t tell me about mercy; This is the fool that lent out money for free: Jailer ,  look to him . 
hear me yet ,  good Shylock . 	but ,  listen to me ,  good Shylock . 
I pray thee ,  hear me speak . 	please listen to me speak . 
I'll not be made a soft and dull - ey'd fool ,  To shake the head ,  relent ,  and sigh ,  and yield To Christian intercessors . 	I won’t be made a soft and dull - eyed fool ,  To shake my head ,  give in ,  and sigh ,  and surrender To Christian intercessors . 
follow not; I'll have no speaking; I will have my bond . 	don’t follow; I won’t put up with your speaking; I’ll have my promise to pay . 
It is the most impenetrable cur That ever kept with men . 	It is the most difficult to understand dog That ever stayed with men . 
let him alone; I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers . 	let him alone; I won’t follow him any more with useless prayers . 
I am sure ,  the Duke Will never grant this forfeiture to hold . 	I am sure the Duke Will never enforce this default . 
the Duke cannot deny the course of law ,  For the commodity that strangers have With us in Venice; if it be denied ,  'Twill much impeach the justice of the state; Since that the trade and profit of the city Consisteth of all nations . 	the Duke cannot deny the course of law ,  Because of the benefits that strangers have With us in Venice ,  if it is denied ,  it will reflect very badly on the justice of the state ,  Because the trade and profit of the city Is from all nations . 
therefore ,  go These griefs and losses have so 'bated me ,  That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh To - morrow ,  to my bloody creditor . 	so ,  go; These griefs and losses have so upset me That I shall hardly have a pound of flesh Tomorrow give to my bloody creditor . 
well ,  gaoler ,  on:—Pray God ,  Bassanio come To see me pay his debt ,  and then I care not ! 	well ,  jailer ,  let’s go on; I pray good Bassanio comes To see me pay his debt ,  and then I won’t care . 
madam ,  although I speak it in your presence ,  You have a noble and a true conceit Of god - like amity; which appears most strongly In bearing thus the absence of your lord . 	madam ,  although I’m saying it in front of you ,  You have a noble and a true understanding Of godlike friendship ,  which appears most strongly In your behaving like this in the absence of your lord . 
but ,  if you knew to whom you show this honour ,  How true a gentleman you send relief ,  How dear a lover of my lord your husband ,  I know you would be prouder of the work ,  Than customary bounty can enforce you . 	but if you knew to whom you give this friendship ,  How true a gentleman you send in relief ,  How dear a friend of my lord is your husband ,  I know you show more pride in the work Than accustomed behavior can make you show . 
I never did repent for doing good ,  Nor shall not now; for in companions That do converse and waste the time together ,  Whose souls do bear an equal yoke of love ,  There must be needs a like proportion Of lineaments ,  of manners ,  and of spirit; Which makes me think ,  that this Antonio ,  Being the bosom lover of my lord ,  Must needs be like my lord . 	I never did regret doing good ,  And I won’t now; because in companions That talk and waste the time together ,  Whose souls bear an equal burden of love ,  There must be a sharing of things like proportion Of limbs ,  manners ,  and spirit ,  Which makes me think that this Antonio ,  Being the closest friend of my lord ,  Must be like my lord . 
If it be so ,  How little is the cost I have bestow'd ,  In purchasing the semblance of my soul From out the state of hellish cruelty ! 	If it’s true ,  How little is the cost I have paid In purchasing the image of my soul From out of the state of hellish cruelty ! 
this comes too near the praising of myself ,  Therefore ,  no more of it: hear other things . 	this sounds as if I am praising of myself; So ,  no more about it; listen to other things . 
I do desire you Not to deny this imposition ,  The which my love ,  and some necessity ,  Now lays upon you . 	I don’t want you To deny this imposition ,  Which my love and some necessity Now lays on you . 
madam ,  with all my heart ,  I shall obey you in all fair commands . 	madam ,  I shall obey you in all fair commands . 
my people do already know my mind ,  And will acknowledge you and Jessica ,  In place of Lord Bassanio and myself . 	with all my heart My staff already know my mind ,  And will report to you and Jessica In place of Lord Bassanio and myself . 
so fare you well ,  till we shall meet again . 	so goodbye until we shall meet again . 
fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you ! 	beautiful thoughts and happy hours attend on you ! 
I wish your ladyship all heart's content . 	I wish your ladyship all my heart's content . 
madam ,  I go with all convenient speed . 	madam ,  I go with all convenient speed . 
come on ,  Nerissa; I have work in hand ,  That you yet know not of; we'll see our husbands Before they think of us . 	come on ,  Nerissa ,  I have work in hand That you don’t know about yet; we'll see our husbands Before they think about us . 
shall they see us ? 	shall they see us ? 
they shall ,  Nerissa; but in such a habit ,  That they shall think we are accomplished With that we lack . 	they shall ,  Nerissa; but in such a costume That they’ll think we are finished With that we don’t have . 
why ,  shall we turn to men ? 	why ,  shall we turn into men ? 
but come ,  I'll tell thee all my whole device When I am in my coach ,  which stays for us At the park gate; and therefore haste away ,  For we must measure twenty miles to - day . 	but come ,  I'll tell you all about my whole plan When I am in my coach ,  which waits for us At the park gate; and so hurry ,  Because we must travel twenty miles today . 
yes ,  truly;—for ,  look you ,  the sins of the father are to be laid upon the children; therefore ,  I promise you I fear you . 	yes ,  honestly; because ,  look ,  the sins of the father are to be laid on the children; so ,  I promise you ,  I’m afraid you . 
I was always plain with you ,  and so now I speak my agitation of the matter: therefore ,  be of good chee; for ,  truly ,  I think you are damned . 	I was always honest with you ,  and so now ,  I speak my annoyance over the matter; so be cheerful ,  because I honestly think you are dammed . 
there is but one hope in it that can do you any good; and that is but a kind of bastard hope neither . 	there is only one hope in it that can do you any good ,  and that is only a kind of bastard hope . 
and what hope is that ,  I pray thee ? 	and what hope is that ,  please ? 
marry ,  you may partly hope that your father got you not ,  that you are not the Jew's daughter . 	damn it ,  you may partly hope that your father had not fathered you ,  that you are not the Jew's daughter . 
that were a kind of bastard hope ,  indeed; so ,  the sins of my mother should be visited upon me . 	that’s a kind of bastard hope indeed; so the sins of my mother should be laid on me . 
truly then I fear you are damned both by father and mother: thus when I shun Scylla ,  your father ,  I fall into Charybdis ,  your mother: well ,  you are gone both ways . 	honestly ,  then I’m afraid you are dammed both by father and mother; when I keep away from the Sea Monster ,  your father ,  I fall into an equal evil ,  your mother; well ,  you are gone both ways . 
I shall be saved by my husband; he hath made me a Christian . 	I shall be saved by my husband; he has made me a Christian . 
I'll tell my husband ,  Launcelot ,  what you say; here he comes . 	I'll tell my husband ,  Launcelot ,  what you say; here he comes . 
I shall grow jealous of you shortly ,  Launcelot ,  if you thus get my wife into corners . 	I shall grow jealous of you shortly ,  Launcelot ,  if you thus get my wife into corners . 
I shall answer that better to the commonwealth ,  than you can the getting up of the negro's belly; the Moor is with child by you ,  Launcelot . 	I shall answer that better to the community than you can explain the swelling of the negro's belly; the Moor is pregnant by you ,  Launcelot . 
It is much ,  that the Moor should be more than reason: but if she be less than an honest woman ,  she is ,  indeed more than I took her for . 	It is important that the Moor should be more than reason; but if she is less than an honest woman ,  she is indeed more than I took her for . 
how every fool can play upon the word ! 	how every fool can play on the word ! 
that is done ,  sir; they have all stomachs . 	that is done ,  sir; they have all stomachs . 
goodly Lord ,  what a wit - snapper are you ! 	goodly Lord ,  what a wit - snapper are you ! 
then bid them prepare dinner . 	then bid them prepare dinner . 
that is done too ,  sir: only ,  cover is the word . 	that is done too ,  sir ,  only 'cover' is the word . 
will you cover ,  then ,  sir ? 	will you cover ,  then ,  sir ? 
not so ,  sir ,  neither; I know my duty . 	not so ,  sir ,  neither; I know my duty . 
yet more quarrelling with occasion ! 	yet more quarrelling with purpose ! 
wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant ? 	will you show the whole wealth of your wit al at once ? 
I pray thee ,  understand a plain man in his plain meaning; go to thy fellows; bid them cover the table ,  serve in the meat ,  and we will come in to dinner . 	please understand a plain man in his plain meaning: let your fellows come on ,  bid them cover the table ,  serve in the meat ,  and we’ll come in to dinner . 
for the table ,  sir ,  it shall be served in; for the meat ,  sir ,  it shall be covered; for your coming into dinner ,  sir ,  why ,  let it be as humours and conceits shall govern . 	for the table ,  sir ,  it shall be served in; for the meat ,  sir ,  it shall be covered; for your coming in to dinner ,  sir ,  why ,  let it be as sense and meaning shall determine . 
o dear discretion ,  how his words are suited ! 	oh ,  dear judgment ,  how his words are suited ! 
the fool hath planted in his memory An army of good words; and I do know A many fools ,  that stand in better place ,  Garnish'd like him ,  that for a tricksy word Defy the matter . 	the fool has planted in his memory An army of good words; and I know Many fools that stand in a better place ,  Dressed like him ,  except that a tricky word Defies definition . 
how cheer'st thou ,  Jessica ? 	how are you ,  Jessica ? 
and now ,  good sweet ,  say thy opinion;— How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio's wife ? 	and now ,  good sweetheart ,  tell me your opinion ,  How do you like Lord Bassanio's wife ? 
past all expressing . 	so much I can’t express it . 
It is very meet ,  The Lord Bassanio live an upright life; For ,  having such a blessing in his lady ,  He finds the joys of heaven here on earth; And ,  if on earth he do not mean it ,  then In reason he should never come to heaven . 	It is very proper The Lord Bassanio live an upright life ,  Because ,  having such a blessing in his lady ,  He finds the joys of heaven here on earth; And if he doesn’t merit it on earth ,  It stands to reason he should never enter heaven . 
why ,  if two gods should play some heavenly match ,  And on the wager lay two earthly women ,  And Portia one ,  there must be something else Pawn'd with the other; for the poor rude world Hath not her fellow . 	why ,  if two gods should play some heavenly match ,  And place a bet on two earthly women ,  And Portia is one of them ,  there must be something else To bet on with the other ,  because the poor rude world Does not have her equal . 
even such a husband Hast thou of me ,  as she is for a wife . 	you have such a husband in me As she is for a wife . 
nay ,  but ask my opinion too of that . 	no ,  but ask my opinion too about that . 
I will anon; first ,  let us go to dinner . 	I’ll ask later; first let’s go in to dinner . 
nay ,  let me praise you ,  while I have a stomach . 	no ,  let me praise you while I want to . 
no ,  pray thee ,  let it serve for table - talk; Then ,  howso'er thou speak'st ,  'mong other things I shall digest it . 	no ,  please ,  let it serve for dinner conversation; Then ,  no matter what you say ,  I shall digest it with the other things I’m eating up . 
well ,  I'll set you forth . 	well ,  I'll point you in the right direction . 
what ,  is Antonio here ? 	what ,  is Antonio here ? 
ready ,  so please your grace . 	ready ,  if it pleases your Grace . 
I am sorry for thee; thou art come to answer A stony adversary ,  an inhuman wretch Uncapable of pity ,  void and empty From any dram of mercy . 	I am sorry for you; you are here to answer A rock - like opponent ,  an inhuman wretch ,  Incapable of pity ,  void and empty Of any ounce of mercy . 
I have heard Your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify His rigorous course; but since he stands obdurate ,  And that no lawful means can carry me Out of his envy's reach ,  I do oppose My patience to his fury; and am arm'd To suffer ,  with a quietness of spirit ,  The very tyranny and rage of his . 	I have heard Your Grace has taken great pains to modify His stubborn course; but since he stands solid ,  And that no lawful means can carry me Out of his envy's reach ,  I confront His fury with my patience ,  and I am ready To suffer the very tyranny and rage of his With a quiet spirit . 
go one ,  and call the Jew into the court . 	go ,  one of you ,  and call the Jew into the court . 
he is ready at the door: he comes ,  my lord . 	he is ready at the door; he comes ,  my lord . 
make room ,  and let him stand before our face . 	make room ,  and let him stand before us . 
shylock ,  the world thinks ,  and I think so too ,  That thou but lead'st this fashion of thy malice To the last hour of act; and then ,  'tis thought Thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse ,  more strange Than is thy strange apparent cruelty: And where thou now exact'st the penalty ,  (Which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh , ) Thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture ,  But ,  touch'd with human gentleness and love ,  Forgive a moiety of the principal; Glancing an eye of pity on his losses ,  That have of late so huddled on his back ,  Enough to press a royal merchant down ,  And pluck commiseration of his state From brassy bosoms ,  and rough hearts of flint ,  From stubborn Turks and Tartars ,  never train'd To offices of tender courtesy . 	shylock ,  the world thinks ,  and I think so too ,  That you only carry this kind of malice To the very last hour of action; and then ,  it’s thought ,  You'll show your mercy and remorse ,  more strangely Than your strange apparent cruelty is; And where you now exact the penalty , — Which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh , — You will not only loose the default ,  But ,  touched with human gentleness and love ,  Forgive half of the borrowed amount ,  Glancing with an eye of pity on his losses ,  That have been so heaped on his back lately ,  Enough to press a royal merchant down ,  And get sympathy for his state From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of stone ,  From stubborn Turks and Tartars ,  never trained To uses of tender courtesy . 
we all expect a gentle answer ,  Jew . 	we all expect a gentle answer ,  Jew . 
you'll ask me ,  why I rather choose to have A weight of carrion flesh ,  than to receive Three thousand ducats: I'll not answer that: But ,  say ,  it is my humour . 	you ask me why I would rather choose to have A weight of dead flesh than to receive Three thousand dollars . 
what ,  if my house be troubled with a rat And I be pleas'd to give ten thousand ducats To have it ban'd ? 	what if a rat troubles my house ,  And I am happy to give ten thousand dollars To have it captured ? 
what ,  are you answer'd yet ? 	what ,  aren’t you answered yet ? 
some men there are love not a gaping pig; Some ,  that are mad if they behold a cat; And others ,  when the bagpipe sings i' the nose ,  Cannot contain their urine: for affection ,  Master of passion ,  sways it to the mood Of what it likes ,  or loathes . 	there are some men that don’t love a dead pig; Some that are crazy if they see a cat; And others ,  when they hear the song of the bagpipe ,  Cannot hold their urine ,  because sympathy ,  Mistress of passion ,  persuades passion to the mood Of what it likes or hates . 
are you answer'd ? 	are you answered ? 
this is no answer ,  thou unfeeling man ,  To excuse the current of thy cruelty . 	this is no answer ,  you unfeeling man ,  To excuse the flowing of your cruelty . 
I am not bound to please thee with my answers . 	I am not required to please you with my answer . 
do all men kill the things they do not love ? 	do all men kill the things they don’t love ? 
hates any man the thing he would not kill ? 	does any man hate the thing he wouldn’t kill ? 
every offence is not a hate at first . 	every wrong is not a hate at first . 
for thy three thousand ducats here is six . 	for your three thousand dollars ,  here are six . 
If every ducat in six thousand ducats Were in six parts ,  and every part a ducat ,  I would not draw them , —I would have my bond . 	If every dollar in six thousand dollars Were in six parts ,  and every part a dollar ,  I would not take them; I want my promise to pay . 
how shalt thou hope for mercy ,  rendering none ? 	how shall you hope for mercy ,  giving none ? 
what judgment shall I dread ,  doing no wrong ? 	what judgment shall I dread ,  if I have done no wrong ? 
let their beds Be made as soft as yours ,  and let their palates Be season'd with such viands ? 	let their beds Be made as soft as yours ,  and let their palates Be seasoned with such rich meats ? 
upon my power ,  I may dismiss this court ,  Unless Bellario ,  a learned doctor ,  Whom I have sent for to determine this ,  Come here to - day . 	I may dismiss this court by my power ,  Unless Bellario ,  a learned doctor ,  Whom I have sent for to determine this ,  Comes here today . 
my lord ,  here stays without ,  A messenger with letters from the doctor ,  New come from Padua . 	my lord ,  There is a messenger waiting outside With letters from the doctor ,  Just now arrived from Padua . 
good cheer ,  Antonio ! 	cheer up ,  Antonio ! 
the Jew shall have my flesh ,  blood ,  bones ,  and all ,  Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood . 	the Jew shall have my flesh ,  blood ,  bones ,  and everything ,  Before you shall lose one drop of blood for me . 
came you ,  from Padua ,  from Bellario ? 	did you come from Padua ,  from Bellario ? 
why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly ? 	why do you sharpen your knife so earnestly ? 
to cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there . 	to cut the default from that bankrupt there . 
not on thy sole ,  but on thy soul ,  harsh Jew ,  Thou mak'st thy knife keen; but no metal can ,  No ,  not the hangman's axe ,  bear half the keenness Of thy sharp envy . 	you make your knife sharp ,  not on the sole of your shoe ,  But on your soul ,  harsh Jew ,  but no metal can ,  No ,  not the hangman's axe ,  be sharpened to half the sharpness Of your sharp hate . 
can no prayers pierce thee ? 	can any prayers get through to you ? 
no ,  none that thou hast wit enough to make . 	no ,  none that you have sense enough to make . 
o ,  be thou damn'd ,  inexecrable dog ! 	oh ,  damn you ,  stubborn dog ! 
and for thy life let justice be accus'd . 	and ,  for your life ,  let justice be blamed . 
thou almost mak'st me waver in my faith ,  To hold opinion with Pythagoras ,  That souls of animals infuse themselves Into the trunks of men: thy currish spirit Govern'd a wolf ,  who ,  hang'd for human slaughter ,  Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet ,  And ,  whilst thou lay'st in thy unhallow'd dam ,  Infus'd itself in thee; for thy desires Are wolvish ,  bloody ,  sterved ,  and ravenous . 	your dog - like spirit That must have been ruled by a wolf Hanged for killing a human ,  his evil soul Falling quickly even from the gallows ,  And ,  while you lay in your unholy mother ,  Sent itself into you ,  because your desires Are wolfish ,  bloody ,  starved ,  and hungry . 
he attendeth here hard by ,  To know your answer ,  whether you'll admit him . 	he waits very nearby ,  To know your answer ,  whether you'll admit him . 
I beseech you ,  let his lack of years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend estimation; for I never knew so young a body with so old a head . 	please don’t let his youth be an impediment to giving him the utmost respect ,  because I never knew so young a body with so old a head . 
come you from old Bellario ? 	give me your hand; do you come from old Bellario ? 
I did ,  my lord . 	I did ,  my lord . 
you are welcome: take your place . 	you are welcome; take your place . 
are you acquainted with the difference That holds this present question in the court ? 	are you acquainted with the difference of opinion That is the present question before the court ? 
I am informed thoroughly of the cause . 	I am thoroughly informed about the case . 
which is the merchant here ,  and which the Jew ? 	which is the merchant here ,  and which the Jew ? 
antonio and old Shylock ,  both stand forth . 	antonio and old Shylock ,  both come forward . 
Is your name Shylock ? 	Is your name Shylock ? 
shylock is my name . 	shylock is my name . 
ay ,  so he says . 	yes ,  so he says . 
do you confess the bond ? 	do you confess the promise to pay ? 
I do . 	I do . 
then must the Jew be merciful . 	then must the Jew be merciful . 
on what compulsion must I ? 	on what compulsion must I ? 
tell me that . 	tell me that . 
therefore ,  Jew ,  Though justice be thy plea ,  consider this— That in the course of justice ,  none of us Should see salvation: we do pray for mercy; And that same prayer ,  doth teach us all to render The deeds of mercy . 	so ,  Jew ,  Though justice is your plea ,  consider this ,  That if we all got justice ,  none of us Would see salvation; we pray for mercy ,  And that same prayer teaches us all to do The deeds of mercy . 
I have spoke thus much ,  To mitigate the justice of thy plea ,  Which if thou follow ,  this strict court of Venice Must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there . 	I have spoken this much To soften the justice of your plea ,  Which if you follow ,  this strict court of Venice Must give a ruling against the merchant there . 
my deeds upon my head ! 	my deeds on my head ! 
I crave the law ,  The penalty and forfeit of my bond . 	I want the law ,  The penalty ,  and penalty of my promise to pay . 
Is he not able to discharge the money ? 	Is he unable to repay the money ? 
yes ,  here I tender it for him in the court; Yea ,  twice the sum: if that will not suffice ,  I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er ,  On forfeit of my hands ,  my head ,  my heart: If this will not suffice ,  it must appear That malice bears down truth . 	yes; here I brought it for him into the court; Yes ,  twice the sum; if that is not enough ,  I’ll swear to pay it ten times over On penalty of the loss of my hands ,  my head ,  my heart; If this is not enough ,  it must seem That evil wins over truth . 
and I beseech you ,  Wrest once the law to your authority: To do a great right ,  do a little wrong; And curb this cruel devil of his will . 	and ,  I beg you ,  Twist the law once to your authority; To do a great right ,  do a little wrong ,  And deprive this cruel devil of his will . 
a Daniel come to judgment ! 	a prophet from the Bible come to judgment ! 
yea ,  a Daniel ! 	yes ,  a prophet ! 
o wise young judge ,  how I do honour thee ! 	oh ,  wise young judge ,  how I honor you ! 
I pray you ,  let me look upon the bond . 	please ,  let me look on the promise to pay . 
here ,  'tis ,  most reverend doctor ,  here it is . 	here it’s ,  most reverend doctor; here it is . 
shylock ,  there's thrice thy money offer'd thee . 	shylock ,  there's three times your money offered to you . 
no ,  not for Venice . 	no ,  not for Venice . 
when it is paid according to the tenor . 	when it is paid according to the terms . 
most heartily I do beseech the court To give the judgment . 	most heartily I beg the court To give the judgment . 
why then ,  thus it is: You must prepare your bosom for his knife . 	why then ,  it is like this: You must prepare your chest for his knife . 
o noble judge ! 	oh ,  noble judge ! 
o excellent young man ! 	oh ,  excellent young man ! 
how much more elder art thou than thy looks ! 	oh ,  wise and upright judge ,  How much more older are you than your looks ! 
therefore lay bare your bosom . 	so ,  bare your chest . 
It is so . 	It is true . 
are there balance here to weigh The flesh ? 	are there scales here to weigh The flesh ? 
I have them ready . 	I have them ready . 
have by some surgeon ,  Shylock ,  on your charge ,  To stop his wounds ,  lest he do bleed to death . 	have some surgeon nearby ,  Shylock ,  on your responsibility ,  To stop his wounds ,  so that he won’t bleed to death . 
Is it so nominated in the bond ? 	Is it so stated in the promise to pay ? 
It is not so express'd ,  but what of that ? 	It is not expressly stated; but so what ? 
twere good you do so much for charity . 	It would be good for you to do so much for charity . 
I cannot find it; 'tis not in the bond . 	I cannot find it; it’s not in the promise to pay . 
come ,  merchant ,  have you any thing to say ? 	you ,  merchant ,  have you anything to say ? 
grieve not that I am fallen to this for you; For herein Fortune shows herself more kind Than is her custom: it is still her use ,  To let the wretched man out - live his wealth ,  To view with hollow eye ,  and wrinkled brow ,  An age of poverty; from which lingering penance Of such misery doth she cut me off . 	don’t grieve that I am doing this for you ,  Because here Fortune shows herself more kind Than is her habit: it is still her habit To let the wretched man outlive his wealth ,  To view an age of poverty with hollow eye and wrinkled brow; She cuts me off from the lingering repentance Of such misery . 
commend me to your honourable wife: Tell her the process of Antonio's end ,  Say ,  how I lov'd you ,  speak me fair in death; And ,  when the tale is told ,  bid her be judge Whether Bassanio had not once a love . 	commend me to your honorable wife: Tell her the story of Antonio's end; Say how I loved you; speak fairly about me in death; And ,  when the tale is told ,  ask her to be the judge of Whether Bassanio didn’t once have a love . 
repent not you that you shall lose your friend ,  And he repents not that he pays your debt; For ,  if the Jew do cut but deep enough ,  I'll pay it instantly with all my heart . 	only be sorry that you shall lose your friend ,  And he is not sorry that he pays your debt; Because if the Jew only cuts deep enough ,  I'll pay it instantly with all my heart . 
antonio ,  I am married to a wife ,  Which is as dear to me as life itself; But life itself ,  my wife ,  and all the world Are not with me esteem'd above thy life; I would lose all ,  ay ,  sacrifice them all Here to this devil ,  to deliver you . 	antonio ,  I am married to a wife Who is as dear to me as life itself; But life itself ,  my wife ,  and all the world ,  Are not worth more to me than your life; I would lose everything ,  yes ,  sacrifice them all Here to this devil ,  to save you . 
your wife would give you little thanks for that ,  If she were by ,  to hear you make the offer . 	your wife would give you little thanks for that ,  If she were here to listen to such an offer . 
I have a wife ,  whom I protest I love; I would she were in heaven ,  so she could Entreat some power to change this currish Jew . 	I have a wife whom ,  I protest ,  I love; I wish she were in heaven ,  so she could Beg some power to change this currish Jew . 
tis well you offer it behind her back; The wish would make else an unquiet house . 	It’s well you offer it behind her back; The wish would other make a noisy house . 
we trifle time; I pray thee pursue sentence . 	we are wasting time; Please ,  enforce sentence . 
most rightful judge ! 	most rightful judge ! 
come ,  prepare ! 	come ,  get ready . 
Is that the law ? 	Is that the law ? 
thyself shalt see the act: For ,  as thou urgest justice ,  be assur'd Thou shalt have justice ,  more than thou desirest . 	you yourself shall see the law; Because ,  as you insist on justice ,  be assured You shall have justice ,  more than you desire . 
I take this offer then , —pay the bond thrice And let the Christian go . 	I take this offer then: pay the promise to pay three times ,  And let the Christian go . 
here is the money . 	here is the money . 
o Jew ! 	oh ,  Jew ! 
an upright judge ,  a learned judge ! 	an upright judge ,  a learned judge ! 
therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh . 	so ,  get ready to cut off the flesh . 
shed thou no blood; nor cut thou less ,  nor more ,  But just a pound of flesh: if thou tak'st more ,  Or less ,  than a just pound , —be it but so much As makes it light ,  or heavy ,  in the substance ,  Or the division of the twentieth part Of one poor scruple , —nay ,  if the scale do turn But in the estimation of a hair , — Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate . 	don’t shed any blood; or cut less nor more ,  Exactly just a pound of flesh: if you take more ,  Or less ,  than a just pound ,  whether it is only so much That makes it light or heavy in the substance ,  Or the division of the twentieth part Of one poor scruple; no ,  if the scale turns Only by a hair ,  You die ,  and all your goods are seized . 
a second Daniel ,  a Daniel ,  Jew ! 	a second Daniel ,  a Daniel ,  Jew ! 
now ,  infidel ,  I have thee on the hip . 	now ,  infidel ,  I have you at a disadvantage . 
why doth the Jew pause ? 	why does the Jew wait ? 
take thy forfeiture . 	take your penalty . 
give me my principal ,  and let me go . 	give me my principal ,  and let me go . 
I have it ready for thee; here it is . 	I have it ready for you; here it is . 
he hath refus'd it in the open court; He shall have merely justice and his bond . 	he has refused it in the open court; He shall merely have justice ,  and his promise to pay . 
shall I not have barely my principal ? 	shall I not have just my principal ? 
thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture ,  To be so taken at thy peril ,  Jew . 	you shall have nothing but the penalty To be so taken at your own risk ,  Jew . 
why ,  then the devil give him good of it ! 	why ,  then the devil give him good of it ! 
I'll stay no longer question . 	I'll wait no longer . 
It is enacted in the laws of Venice , — If it be proved against an alien That by direct or indirect attempts He seek the life of any citizen ,  The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive ,  Shall seize one half his goods; the other half Comes to the privy coffer of the state; And the offender's life lies in the mercy Of the duke only ,  'gainst all other voice . 	It is enacted in the laws of Venice ,  That ,  if it is proved against an alien That by direct or indirect attempts He seek the life of any citizen ,  The party against whom he schemes Shall seize one half his goods; the other half Comes to the public treasury of the state; And the offender's life lies at the mercy Of the Duke only ,  above all others . 
In which predicament ,  I say ,  thou stand'st: For it appears by manifest proceeding ,  That ,  indirectly ,  and directly too ,  Thou hast contriv'd against the very life Of the defendant; and thou hast incurr'd The danger formerly by me rehears'd . 	In which predicament ,  I say ,  you stand; Because it appears by this obvious proceeding That indirectly ,  and directly too ,  You have schemed against the very life Of the defendant; and you have incurred The danger that I just read to you . 
down ,  therefore ,  and beg mercy of the duke . 	so ,  kneel down ,  and beg mercy of the Duke . 
beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself: And yet ,  thy wealth being forfeit to the state ,  Thou hast not left the value of a cord; Therefore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge . 	beg that you may have permission to hang yourself; And still ,  your wealth being the penalty to pay the state ,  You haven’t got the value of a string left; So you must be hanged at the state's expense . 
ay ,  for the state; not for Antonio . 	yes ,  for the state; not for Antonio . 
nay ,  take my life and all; pardon not that: You take my house when you do take the prop That doth sustain my house; you take my life ,  When you do take the means whereby I live . 	no ,  take my life and everything ,  don’t pardon that: You take my house when you take the prop That holds my house up; you take my life When you take the means by which I live . 
what mercy can you render him ,  Antonio ? 	what mercy can you give him ,  Antonio ? 
a halter gratis; nothing else ,  for God's sake ! 	a free rope with a nooses; nothing else ,  for God's sake ! 
so please my lord the duke ,  and all the court To quit the fine for one half of his goods; I am content ,  so he will let me have The other half in use ,  to render it ,  Upon his death ,  unto the gentleman That lately stole his daughter; Two things provided more , —that for this favour ,  He presently become a Christian; The other ,  that he do record a gift ,  Here in the court ,  of all he dies possess'd ,  Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter . 	so if it pleases my lord ,  the Duke ,  and all the court To set the fine for one half of his goods ,  I am content ,  as long as he will let me have The other half to use ,  to give it ,  On his death ,  to the gentleman That lately stole his daughter: Two things more ,  that ,  for this favor ,  He presently becomes a Christian; The other ,  that he records a gift ,  Here in the court ,  of everything he has when he dies To his son ,  Lorenzo ,  and his daughter . 
he shall do this; or else I do recant The pardon that I late pronounced here . 	he shall do this ,  or else I take back The pardon that I just pronounced here . 
art thou contented ,  Jew ? 	are you content ,  Jew ? 
what dost thou say ? 	what do you say ? 
I am content . 	I am content . 
clerk ,  draw a deed of gift . 	clerk ,  draw up a deed of gift . 
I pray you give me leave to go from hence: I am not well; send the deed after me ,  And I will sign it . 	please ,  let me go from here; I am not well; send the deed after me And I’ll sign it . 
get thee gone ,  but do it . 	go ,  but do it . 
In christening ,  shalt thou have two god - fathers; Had I been judge ,  thou shouldst have had ten more ,  To bring thee to the gallows ,  not the font . 	In your christening ,  you shall have two godfathers; If I had been the judge ,  you should have had ten more ,  To bring you to the gallows ,  not to the baptismal font . 
sir ,  I entreat you home with me to dinner . 	sir ,  I beg you to come home with me to dinner . 
I am sorry that your leisure serves you not . 	I am sorry that you cannot stay . 
antonio ,  gratify this gentleman ,  For ,  in my mind ,  you are much bound to him . 	antonio ,  thank this gentleman ,  Because ,  in my opinion ,  you owe him a lot . 
most worthy gentleman ,  I ,  and my friend ,  Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted Of grievous penalties; in lieu whereof ,  Three thousand ducats ,  due unto the Jew ,  We freely cope your courteous pains withal . 	most worthy gentleman ,  my friend and I Have been acquitted today Of grievous penalties by your wisdom; instead of Three thousand dollars ,  due to the Jew ,  We will freely pay for your courteous pains . 
and stand indebted ,  over and above ,  In love and service to you evermore . 	and stand indebted ,  over and above ,  In love and service to you forever . 
he is well paid that is well satisfied: And I ,  delivering you ,  am satisfied ,  And therein do account myself well paid; My mind was never yet more mercenary . 	he is well paid that is well satisfied; And I am satisfied in delivering you ,  And therefore ,  I consider myself well paid: My mind never wanted anything else in payment . 
I pray you ,  know me ,  when we meet again; I wish you well ,  and so I take my leave . 	please ,  recognize me when we meet again: I wish you well ,  and so I say goodbye . 
you press me far ,  and therefore I will yield . 	you push me far ,  and so I’ll give in . 
I will have nothing else but only this; And now ,  methinks ,  I have a mind to it . 	I’ll have nothing else except this only; And now ,  I think ,  I have a mind to have it . 
there's more depends on this than on the value . 	there's more that depends on this ring than its value . 
the dearest ring in Venice will I give you ,  And find it out by proclamation; Only for this I pray you pardon me . 	I will give you the most expensive in Venice ,  And find out where it is by proclamation: Only for this ring ,  please ,  excuse me . 
I see ,  sir ,  you are liberal in offers: You taught me first to beg; and now ,  methinks ,  You teach me how a beggar should be answer'd . 	I see ,  sir ,  you are free in making offers; You taught me to beg first ,  and now I think You teach me how to answer a beggar . 
good sir ,  this ring was given me by my wife; And ,  when she put it on ,  she made me vow That I should neither sell ,  nor give ,  nor lose it . 	good sir ,  this ring was given me by my wife; And ,  when she put it on ,  she made me vow That I should not sell ,  or give ,  or lose it . 
that 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts . 	that’s the excuse many men use to save their gifts . 
an if your wife be not a mad woman ,  And know how well I have deserv'd the ring ,  She would not hold out enemy for ever ,  For giving it to me . 	and ,  if your wife is not a madwoman ,  And knows how much I have deserved this ring ,  She would not hold out in being your enemy forever For giving it to me . 
well ,  peace be with you ! 	well ,  goodbye ! 
my Lord Bassanio ,  let him have the ring ,  Let his deservings ,  and my love withal ,  Be valued 'gainst your wife's commandment . 	my Lord Bassanio ,  let him have the ring: Let what he deserves ,  and with my friendship ,  Be measured against your wife's commandment . 
go ,  Gratiano ,  run and overtake him; Give him the ring; and bring him ,  if thou canst ,  Unto Antonio's house:—away ! 	go ,  Gratiano ,  run and catch him; Give him the ring ,  and bring him ,  if you can ,  To Antonio's house . 
Inquire the Jew's house out ,  give him this deed ,  And let him sign it; we'll away to - night ,  And be a day before our husbands home . 	find the Jew's house ,  give him this deed ,  And let him sign it; we'll leave tonight ,  And be a day ahead of our husbands coming home . 
this deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo . 	this deed will be very welcome to Lorenzo . 
fair sir ,  you are well o'erta'en: My Lord Bassanio ,  upon more advice ,  Hath sent you here this ring ,  and doth entreat Your company at dinner . 	my Lord Bassanio ,  listening to more advice ,  Has sent you this ring here ,  and asks Your company at dinner . 
that cannot be: His ring I do accept most thankfully ,  And so ,  I pray you ,  tell him: furthermore ,  I pray you ,  show my youth old Shylock's house . 	I can’t do that: I accept his ring most thankfully; And please tell him so; furthermore ,  Please show my youth to old Shylock's house . 
that will I do . 	that I will do . 
thou may'st ,  I warrant we shall have old swearing ,  That they did give the rings away to men; But we'll outface them ,  and outswear them too . 	we shall have old swearing That they gave the rings away to men; But we'll confront them ,  and outswear them too . 
away ! 	away ! 
make haste; thou know'st where I will tarry . 	hurry: you know where I’ll wait for you . 
come ,  good sir ,  will you show me to this house ? 	come ,  good sir ,  will you show me to this house ? 
the moon shines bright:—in such a night as this ,  When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees ,  And they did make no noise , —in such a night ,  Troilus ,  methinks ,  mounted the Trojan walls ,  And sigh'd his soul toward the Grecian tents ,  Where Cressid lay that night . 	the moon shines bright: in such a night as this ,  When the sweet wind gently kissed the trees ,  And they made no noise ,  in such a night ,  Troilus I think climbed the walls of Troy ,  And sighed his soul toward the Grecian tents ,  Where Cressida lay that night . 
In such a night ,  Did Thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew ,  And saw the lion's shadow ere himself ,  And ran dismay'd away . 	In such a night Thisbe fearfully tripped over the dew ,  And saw the lion's shadow before the lion itself ,  And ran away dismayed . 
In such a night ,  Stood Dido ,  with a willow in her hand ,  Upon the wild sea - banks ,  and waft her love To come again to Carthage . 	In such a night Dido stood with a willow in her hand On the wild banks of the sea ,  and sent her love To return to Carthage . 
In such a night ,  Medea gather'd the enchanted herbs That did renew old Æson . 	In such a night Medea gathered the enchanted herbs That renewed old Aeson . 
In such a night ,  Did Jessica steal from the wealthy Jew ,  And with an unthrift love did run from Venice ,  As far as Belmont . 	In such a night Jessica stole away from the wealthy Jew ,  And ran from Venice with a poor love As far as Belmont . 
In such a night ,  Did young Lorenzo swear he lov'd her well; Stealing her soul with many vows of faith ,  And ne'er a true one . 	In such a night Young Lorenzo swore he loved her well ,  Stealing her soul with many vows of love , — And never a true one . 
In such a night ,  Did pretty Jessica ,  like a little shrew ,  Slander her love ,  and he forgave it her . 	In such a night Pretty Jessica ,  like a little witch ,  Lied about her love ,  and he forgave her . 
I would out - night you ,  did no body come; But ,  hark ,  I hear the footing of a man . 	I would out - night you ,  if no one was coming ,  But ,  listen ,  I hear the footsteps of a man . 
who comes so fast in silence of the night ? 	who comes so quickly in silence of the night ? 
a friend . 	a friend . 
a friend ? 	a friend ! 
what friend ? 	what friend ? 
your name ,  I pray you ,  friend ? 	your name ,  please ,  friend ? 
stephano is my name; and I bring word My mistress will before the break of day Be here at Belmont; she doth stray about By holy crosses ,  where she kneels and prays For happy wedlock hours . 	stephano is my name ,  and I bring word that My mistress will be here at Belmont Before the break of day; she wanders about By holy crosses ,  where she kneels and prays For happy marriage hours . 
who comes with her ? 	who comes with her ? 
none ,  but a holy hermit ,  and her maid . 	no one but a holy hermit and her maid . 
I pray you ,  is my master yet return'd ? 	please ,  is my master returned yet ? 
sola ,  sola ! 	hey ,  hey ! 
wo ha ,  ho ! 	whoa ,  ha ,  hey ! 
sola ,  sola ! 	hey ,  hey ! 
who calls ? 	who calls ? 
sola ! 	hey ! 
sola ,  sola ! 	hey ,  hey ! 
sola ! 	hey ! 
where ? 	where ? 
where ? 	where ? 
here . 	here ! 
tell him there's a post come from my master ,  with his horn full of good news; my master will be here ere morning . 	tell him there's a letter arrived from my master with his horn full of good news; my master will be here before morning . 
my friend Stephano ,  signify ,  I pray you ,  Within the house ,  your mistress is at hand: And bring your music forth into the air . 	my friend Stephano ,  let them know ,  please ,  Within the house ,  that your mistress is at hand ,  And bring your music outside . 
how sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank ! 	how sweet the moonlight sleeps on this bank ! 
here will we sit ,  and let the sounds of music Creep in our ears; soft stillness ,  and the night ,  Become the touches of sweet harmony . 	we will sit here and let the sounds of music Creep into our ears; soft stillness and the night Compliment the touches of sweet harmony . 
and wake Diana with a hymn; With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear ,  And draw her home with music . 	and wake the goddess of Love with a hymn; Pierce your mistress’ ear with sweetest touches ,  And bring her home with music . 
I am never merry when I hear sweet music . 	I am never happy when I hear sweet music . 
the man that hath no music in himself ,  Nor is not mov'd with concord of sweet sounds ,  Is fit for treasons ,  stratagems ,  and spoils; The motions of his spirit are dull as night ,  And his affections dark as Erebus: Let no such man be trusted . —Mark the music . 	the man that has no music in him ,  Or is not moved by harmony of sweet sounds ,  Is fit for treasons ,  plots ,  and stealing; The movement of his spirit is as dull as night ,  And his affections are as dark as the place between Earth and hell . 
so shines a good deed in a naughty world . 	a good deed in a naughty world shines like that . 
when the moon shone ,  we did not see the candle . 	when the moon was shining ,  we did not see the candle . 
so doth the greater glory dim the less: A substitute shines brightly as a king ,  Unto the king be by; and then his state ,  Empties itself ,  as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters . 	a substitute shines as brightly as a king Until a king is back ,  and then the substitute’s Condition drains away ,  as an inland brook does Into the river of waters . 
music ! 	music ! 
hark ! 	listen ! 
It is your music ,  madam ,  of the house . 	It is your music ,  madam ,  from the house . 
nothing is good ,  I see ,  without respect; Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day . 	nothing is good ,  I see ,  without respect: I think it sounds much sweeter at night than by day . 
silence bestows that virtue on it ,  madam . 	silence bestows that virtue on it ,  madam . 
the crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark ,  When neither is attended; and ,  I think ,  The nightingale ,  if she should sing by day ,  When every goose is cackling ,  would be thought No better a musician than the wren . 	the crow sings as sweetly as the lark When either is waited on ,  and I think The nightingale ,  if she sang by day ,  When every goose is cackling ,  would be considered No better a musician than the wren . 
the moon sleeps with Endymion ,  And would not be awak'd . 	the moon sleeps with her lover ,  And does not want to be awakened ! 
that is the voice ,  Or I am much deceiv'd ,  of Portia . 	that is the voice ,  Or I am much mistaken ,  of Portia . 
he knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo ,  By the bad voice . 	he knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo ,  By my bad voice . 
dear lady ,  welcome home . 	dear lady ,  welcome home . 
we have been praying for our husbands' welfare ,  Which speed ,  we hope ,  the better for our words . 	we have been praying for our husbands' welfare ,  Which are moving along quickly ,  we hope ,  the better For our words . 
are they return'd ? 	have they returned ? 
madam ,  they are not yet; But there is come a messenger before ,  To signify their coming . 	madam ,  not yet; But there is come a messenger ahead of them ,  To show that they are coming . 
go in ,  Nerissa; Give order to my servants ,  that they take No note at all of our being absent hence; Nor you ,  Lorenzo:—Jessica ,  nor you . 	go in ,  Nerissa: Give orders to my servants that they take No notice at all of our being absent from here; Nor you ,  Lorenzo; Jessica ,  nor you . 
we should hold day with the Antipodes ,  If you would walk in absence of the sun . 	we should hold day with the direct opposite ,  If you would walk in absence of the sun . 
I thank you ,  madam: Give welcome to my friend . — This is the man ,  this is Antonio ,  To whom I am so infinitely bound . 	I thank you ,  madam; give welcome to my friend: This is the man ,  this is Antonio ,  To whom I am so infinitely indebted . 
no more than I am well acquitted of . 	no more than I am well released from . 
a quarrel ,  ho ,  already ! 	a quarrel ,  hey ,  already ! 
what's the matter ? 	what's the matter ? 
you swore to me ,  when I did give it you ,  That you would wear it till your hour of death; And that it should lie with you in your grave: Though not for me ,  yet for your vehement oaths ,  You should have been respective ,  and have kept it . 	you swore to me ,  when I gave it you ,  That you would wear it until the hour of your death ,  And that it would go with you to your grave; You should have respected and have kept it Though not for me ,  but for your intense oaths . 
gave it a judge's clerk ! —no ,  God's my judge ! 	gave it a judge's clerk ! 
the clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it . 	no ,  God's my judge ,  The clerk will never grow a beard that took it . 
he will ,  an if he live to be a man . 	he will ,  if he lives to be a man . 
ay ,  if a woman live to be a man . 	yes ,  if a woman lives to be a man . 
now ,  by this hand ,  I gave it to a youth , — A kind of boy; a little scrubbed boy ,  No higher than thyself ,  the judge's clerk; A prating boy ,  that begg'd it as a fee; I could not for my heart deny it him . 	now ,  by this hand ,  I gave it to a youth ,  A kind of boy ,  a little scrubbed boy No taller than you ,  the judge's clerk; A chattering boy that asked for it as a fee; I could not ,  for my heart ,  deny him the ring . 
you were to blame ,  I must be plain with you ,  To part so slightly with your wife's first gift; A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger ,  And so riveted with faith unto your flesh . 	you are to blame , —I must be plain with you , — To part so quickly with your wife's first gift ,  A thing stuck on your finger with oaths ,  And so nailed with faith to your flesh with faith . 
I gave my love a ring ,  and made him swear Never to part with it; and here he stands , — I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it ,  Nor pluck it from his finger ,  for the wealth That the world masters . 	I gave my love a ring ,  and made him swear Never to part with it ,  and here he stands ,  I would dare to swear for him that he would not leave it Nor pluck it from his finger for all the wealth In the world . 
now ,  in faith ,  Gratiano ,  You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief; An 'twere to me ,  I should be mad at it . 	now ,  truly ,  Gratiano ,  You give your wife a cause for grief that is very unkind; If it was given to me ,  I should be angry about it . 
why ,  I were best to cut my left hand off And swear I lost the ring defending it . 	why ,  it would be better if I cut my left hand off ,  And swear I lost the ring defending it . 
my Lord Bassanio gave his ring away Unto the judge that begg'd it ,  and ,  indeed ,  Deserv'd it too; and then the boy ,  his clerk ,  That took some pains in writing ,  he begg'd mine: And neither man ,  nor master ,  would take aught But the two rings . 	my Lord Bassanio gave his ring away To the judge that asked for it ,  and indeed Deserved it too; and then the boy ,  his clerk ,  That took some pains in writing ,  he asked for mine; And neither man nor master would take anything else But the two rings . 
what ring gave you my lord ? 	what ring did you give ,  my lord ? 
not that ,  I hope ,  which you receiv'd of me . 	not the one ,  I hope ,  that you got from me . 
If I could add a lie unto a fault ,  I would deny it; but you see ,  my finger Hath not the ring upon it ,  it is gone . 	If I could add a lie to a fault ,  I would deny it; but you see my finger Hasn’t got the ring on it; it is gone . 
nor I in yours Till I again see mine . 	and neither will I Until I see mine again . 
sweet Portia ,  If you did know to whom I gave the ring ,  If you did know for whom I gave the ring ,  And would conceive for what I gave the ring ,  And how unwillingly I left the ring ,  When nought would be accepted but the ring ,  You would abate the strength of your displeasure . 	sweet Portia ,  If you knew to whom I gave the ring ,  If you knew for whom I gave the ring ,  And would think about for what I gave the ring ,  And how unwillingly I let the ring go ,  When nothing would be accepted but the ring ,  You would decrease the strength of your anger . 
If you had known the virtue of the ring ,  Or half her worthiness that gave the ring ,  Or your own honour to contain the ring ,  You would not then have parted with the ring . 	If you had known the virtue of the ring ,  Or half the worthiness of her who gave the ring ,  Or your own honor to hold the ring ,  You wouldn’t have parted then with the ring . 
what man is there so much unreasonable ,  If you had pleas'd to have defended it With any terms of zeal ,  wanted the modesty To urge the thing held as a ceremony ? 	what man is there so very unreasonable ,  That ,  if you had bothered to defend it With any terms of earnestness ,  lacked the modesty To encourage the thing be held as a ceremony ? 
nerissa teaches me what to believe; I'll die for't ,  but some woman had the ring . 	nerissa teaches me what to believe: I'll die for it ,  but some woman took the ring . 
no ,  by mine honour ,  madam ,  by my soul ,  No woman had it ,  but a civil doctor ,  Which did refuse three thousand ducats of me And begg'd the ring; the which I did deny him ,  And suffer'd him to go displeas'd away; Even he that had uphold the very life Of my dear friend . 	no ,  by my honor ,  madam ,  by my soul ,  No woman took it ,  but a civil doctor ,  Which refused three thousand dollars of me ,  And begged for the ring ,  which I denied him ,  And let him go away displeased ,  Even he that had delayed the very life Of my dear friend . 
what should I say ,  sweet lady ? 	what should I say ,  sweet lady ? 
I was enforc'd to send it after him; I was beset with shame and courtesy; My honour would not let ingratitude So much besmear it . 	I forced to send the ring after him; I was overcome with shame and courtesy; My honor would not let ingratitude So much offend it . 
pardon me ,  good lady; For ,  by these blessed candles of the night ,  Had you been there ,  I think ,  you would have begg'd The ring of me to give the worthy doctor . 	pardon me ,  good lady; Because ,  by these blessed candles of the night ,  If you had been there ,  I think you would have begged The ring from me to give the worthy doctor . 
and I his clerk; therefore be well advis'd How you do leave me to mine own protection . 	and I his clerk; so be well advised How you leave me to my own protection . 
well ,  do you so: let not me take him then ,  For if I do ,  I'll mar the young clerk's pen . 	well ,  do so: don’t let me take him then; Because ,  if I do ,  I'll break the young clerk's pen . 
I am the unhappy subject of these quarrels . 	I am the unhappy subject of these quarrels . 
sir ,  grieve not you; you are welcome notwithstanding . 	sir ,  don’t grieve; you are welcome nevertheless . 
portia ,  forgive me this enforced wrong; And ,  in the hearing of these many friends ,  I swear to thee ,  even by thine own fair eyes ,  Wherein I see myself , — Mark you but that ! 	portia ,  forgive me this forced wrong; And in the hearing of these many friends ,  I swear to you ,  even by your own beautiful eyes ,  That I see myself in , — Listen ,  only that ! 
In both my eyes he doubly sees himself: In each eye ,  one:—swear by your double self ,  And there's an oath of credit . 	In both my eyes ,  he doubly sees himself ,  One in each eye; swear by your double self ,  And there's an oath to believe . 
nay ,  but hear me: Pardon this fault ,  and by my soul I swear ,  I never more will break an oath with thee . 	no ,  but listen to me: Pardon this fault ,  and ,  by my soul ,  I swear I will never again break an oath made to you . 
then you shall be his surety . 	then you shall be his insurance . 
give him this And bid him keep it better than the other . 	give him this ,  And tell him keep it better than the other one . 
here ,  Lord Bassanio; swear to keep this ring . 	here ,  Lord Bassanio ,  swear to keep this ring . 
I had it of him: pardon me ,  Bassanio: For by this ring the doctor lay with me . 	I got it from him: pardon me ,  Bassanio ,  Because ,  by this ring ,  the doctor slept with me . 
and pardon me ,  my gentle Gratiano; For that same scrubbed boy ,  the doctor's clerk ,  In lieu of this last night did lie with me . 	and pardon me ,  my gentle Gratiano ,  Because that same scrubbed boy ,  the doctor's clerk ,  Instead of this ,  slept with me last night . 
are we cuckolds ,  ere we have deserv'd it ? 	are we betrayed before we have deserved it ? 
I am dumb . 	I am speechless . 
were you the doctor ,  and I knew you not ? 	you were the doctor ,  and I didn’t know you ? 
were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold ? 	you were you the clerk that is to betray me ? 
ay ,  but the clerk that never means to do it ,  Unless he live until he be a man . 	yes ,  but the clerk that never means to do it ,  Unless he lives until he is a man . 
sweet doctor ,  you shall be my bedfellow; When I am absent ,  then lie with my wife . 	sweet doctor ,  you shall be my lover: When I am absent ,  then you can lie with my wife . 
sweet lady ,  you have given me life ,  and living; For here I read for certain ,  that my ships Are safely come to road . 	sweet lady ,  you have given me life and living ,  Because here I read for certain that my ships Have safely come home . 
how now ,  Lorenzo ? 	how is it now ,  Lorenzo ! 
my clerk hath some good comforts too for you . 	my clerk has some good comforts for you ,  too . 
fair ladies ,  you drop manna in the way Of starved people . 	beautiful ladies ,  you drop holy bread in the way Of starved people . 
It is almost morning ,  And yet ,  I am sure ,  you are not satisfied Of these events at full . 	It is almost morning ,  And I am still sure you are not totally satisfied About these events full . 
let us go in; And charge us there upon inter'gatories ,  And we will answer all things faithfully . 	let’s go in; And ask us all your questions ,  And we’ll answer everything truthfully . 
well ,  while I live ,  I'll fear no other thing So sore ,  as keeping safe Nerissa's ring . 	well ,  while I live ,  I'll fear no other thing So much as keeping Nerissa's ring safe . 
what many men desire ” —that  “ many ”  may be meant By the fool multitude that choose by show ,  Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach; Which pries not to th' interior ,  but like the martlet Builds in the weather on the outward wall ,  Even in the force and road of casualty . 	he who chooses me will get what many men want .  ”  What many men want—that  “ many ”  could mean that most people are fools and choose by whatever is flashy . 
I will not choose what many men desire Because I will not jump with common spirits And rank me with the barbarous multitudes . 	so I won’t choose what many men desire ,  because I won’t jump on the bandwagon and include myself with the whole crude population . 
why then ,  to thee ,  thou silver treasure house . 	so I guess it’s you ,  you silver treasure house . 
tell me once more what title thou dost bear . 	tell me once more what you say . 
who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”  And well said too—for who shall go about To cozen fortune and be honorable Without the stamp of merit ? 	he who chooses me will get what he deserves .  ”  That’s nicely put—because who’s going to cheat luck and get more than he deserves ? 
let none presume To wear an undeservèd dignity . 	no one should have an honor he doesn’t deserve . 
oh ,  that estates ,  degrees and offices Were not derived corruptly ,  and that clear honor Were purchased by the merit of the wearer ! 	oh ,  wouldn’t it be great if property ,  rank ,  official positions ,  and other honors were earned only by merit ,  not by corruption ? 
how many then should cover that stand bare ! 	how many people who are humble now would be great then ? 
how much low peasantry would then be gleaned From the true seed of honor ! 	how many noblemen would be weeded out and would become peasants ? 
well ,  but to my choice . 	well ,  let me get back to my choice . 
who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”  I will assume desert . —Give me a key for this ,  And instantly unlock my fortunes here . 	he who chooses me will get what he deserves .  ”  I’ll assume I deserve the very best . —Give me a key for this one . 
too long a pause for that which you find there . 	you thought about it too long ,  considering what you found there . 
what’s here ? 	what’s this ? 
I will read it . — How much unlike art thou to Portia ! 	I’ll read it . —It looks so unlike Portia ! 
who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves ”  ! 	the one who chooses me will get what he deserves ”  ! 
did I deserve no more than a fool’s head ? 	didn’t I deserve anything more than a fool’s head ? 
Is that my prize ? 	Is this my prize ? 
are my deserts no better ? 	don’t I deserve more than this ? 
what is here ? 	what does this say ? 
the fire seven times tried this ,  Seven times tried that judgment is ,  That did never choose amiss . 	this box was tested in the fire seven times . 
some there be that shadows kiss . 	some people kiss shadows . 
such have but a shadow’s bliss . 	they only feel the shadow of joy . 
there be fools alive ,  iwis ,  Silvered o'er—and so was this . 	this choice was as foolish as they are . 
take what wife you will to bed ,  I will ever be your head . 	take whatever wife you want to bed with you ,  You’ll have a fool’s head forever . 
so be gone . 	so go away . 
with one fool’s head I came to woo ,  But I go away with two . — Sweet ,  adieu . 	I came here with a fool’s head on my shoulders and now I’m leaving with two . —Goodbye ,  sweet lady . 
I’ll keep my oath Patiently to bear my wroth .  ” 	I’ll keep my oath and patiently suffer through my anger . 
thus hath the candle singed the moth . 	this is how the candle burned the moth . 
o these deliberate fools ! 	oh ,  these fools ! 
when they do choose ,  They have the wisdom by their wit to lose . 	when they choose ,  they only know how to lose . 
the ancient saying is no heresy . 	you know what they say . 
hanging and wiving goes by destiny . 	destiny chooses when you’ll die and who you’ll marry . 
come ,  draw the curtain ,  Nerissa . 	come on ,  close the curtain ,  Nerissa . 
where is my lady ? 	where’s lady Portia ? 
here . 	here . 
what would my lord ? 	how can I help you ,  sir ? 
yet I have not seen So likely an ambassador of love . 	I haven’t seen such a promising candidate for your love . 
no more ,  I pray thee . 	please don’t tell me any more . 
I am half afeard Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee ,  Thou spend’st such high - day wit in praising him . — Come ,  come ,  Nerissa ,  for I long to see Quick Cupid’s post that comes so mannerly . 	come on ,  Nerissa ,  I want to go see this man who’s come so courteously . 
now ,  what news on the Rialto ? 	so ,  what’s the news on the Rialto ? 
but it is true ,  without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk ,  that the good Antonio ,  the honest Antonio—oh ,  that I had a title good enough to keep his name company ! —  Come ,  the full stop . 	but it’s true—I don’t want to get all mushy and go on and on ,  but the good Antonio ,  the honest Antonio—oh ,  if I only had a title good enough to match his ! — Come on ,  get to the point . 
ha ,  what sayest thou ? 	what are you saying ? 
why ,  the end is he hath lost a ship . 	well ,  the point is ,  he’s lost a ship . 
I would it might prove the end of his losses . 	I hope that’s all he loses . 
let me say  “ Amen ”  betimes ,  lest the devil cross my prayer ,  for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew . 	let me say  “ amen ”  quickly ,  before the devil comes in and stops my prayer—because here comes the devil ,  disguised as a Jew . 
how now ,  Shylock ? 	how’s it going ,  Shylock ? 
what news among the merchants ? 	what’s the news among the merchants ? 
you knew—none so well ,  none so well as you—of my daughter’s flight . 	you knew—no one knew ,  no one knew as well as you did—about my daughter’s plans to run away . 
that’s certain . 	that’s true . 
I ,  for my part ,  knew the tailor that made the wings she flew withal . 	I even knew the tailor who made the disguise she wore when she ran off . 
she is damned for it . 	she’ll be damned for it . 
that’s certain—if the devil may be her judge . 	that’s true—if the devil’s judging her . 
my own flesh and blood to rebel ! 	my own flesh and blood turned against me ! 
out upon it ,  old carrion ! 	a rebel ! 
rebels it at these years ? 	no ! 
I say my daughter is my flesh and blood . 	your  I mean my daughter is my flesh and blood . 
but tell us ,  do you hear whether Antonio have had any loss at sea or no ? 	but tell us ,  did you hear anything about Antonio’s loss at sea ? 
well ,  we will leave you then till dinnertime . 	all right ,  we’ll see you at dinnertime . 
I must be one of these same dumb wise men ,  For Gratiano never lets me speak . 	I must be one of these silent so - called wise men Gratiano’s talking about ,  because he never lets me get a word in . 
well ,  keep me company but two years more ,  Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue . 	If you hang around me for two more years ,  you’ll forget the sound of your own voice . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
I’ll grow a talker for this gear . 	thank you . 
Is that any thing now ? 	Is he right ? 
gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing ,  more than any man in all Venice . 	gratiano talks more nonsense than any other man in Venice . 
well ,  tell me now what lady is the same To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage ,  That you today promised to tell me of ? 	you promised to tell me . 
there I have another bad match ! —a bankrupt ,  a prodigal who dare scarce show his head on the Rialto ,  a beggar that was used to come so smug upon the mart . 	that’s another bad deal I’ve made ! —a bankrupt ,  a spendthrift ,  who now has to hide his head on the Rialto ,  a beggar who used to look so smug in front of the other merchants . 
let him look to his bond . 	let him think about his own debt . 
he was wont to call me usurer; let him look to his bond . 	he liked to call me a loan shark; let him think about his debt to me . 
he was wont to lend money for a Christian courtesy; let him look to his bond . 	he used to lend money as a favor between Christians; but now ,  let him think about his own debt . 
why ,  I am sure ,  if he forfeit thou wilt not take his flesh . 	but you won’t take his flesh if he can’t pay . 
what’s that good for ? 	what’s that good for ? 
to bait fish withal . 	I’ll use it for fish bait . 
he hath disgraced me and hindered me half a million ,  laughed at my losses ,  mocked at my gains ,  scorned my nation ,  thwarted my bargains ,  cooled my friends ,  heated mine enemies—and what’s his reason ? 	he’s laughed at my losses ,  made fun of my earnings ,  humiliated my race ,  thwarted my deals ,  turned my friends against me ,  riled up my enemies—and why ? 
I am a Jew . 	because I’m a Jew . 
hath not a Jew eyes ? 	doesn’t a Jew have eyes ? 
hath not a Jew hands ,  organs ,  dimensions ,  senses ,  affections ,  passions ? 	doesn’t a Jew have hands ,  bodily organs ,  a human shape ,  five senses ,  feelings ,  and passions ? 
fed with the same food ,  hurt with the same weapons ,  subject to the same diseases ,  healed by the same means ,  warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer as a Christian is ? 	doesn’t a Jew eat the same food ,  get hurt with the same weapons ,  get sick with the same diseases ,  get healed by the same medicine ,  and warm up in summer and cool off in winter just like a Christian ? 
If you prick us ,  do we not bleed ? 	If you prick us with a pin ,  don’t we bleed ? 
If you tickle us ,  do we not laugh ? 	If you tickle us ,  don’t we laugh ? 
If you poison us ,  do we not die ? 	If you poison us ,  don’t we die ? 
and if you wrong us ,  shall we not revenge ? 	and if you treat us badly ,  won’t we try to get revenge ? 
If we are like you in the rest ,  we will resemble you in that . 	If we’re like you in everything else ,  we’ll resemble you in that respect . 
If a Jew wrong a Christian ,  what is his humility ? 	If a Jew offends a Christian ,  what’s the Christian’s kind and gentle reaction ? 
revenge . 	revenge . 
we have been up and down to seek him . 	we’ve been looking for him everywhere . 
here comes another of the tribe . 	here comes another Jew . 
a third cannot be matched unless the devil himself turn Jew . 	you couldn’t find a third like these two unless the devil himself turned into a Jew . 
how now ,  Tubal ? 	hello ,  Tubal . 
what news from Genoa ? 	any news from Genoa ? 
hast thou found my daughter ? 	did you find my daughter ? 
I often came where I did hear of her ,  but cannot find her . 	I went to many places where I heard news about her ,  but I couldn’t find her . 
why ,  there ,  there ,  there ,  there ! 	oh ,  oh ,  oh ! 
I never felt it till now—Two thousand ducats in that ,  and other precious ,  precious jewels . 	I never felt it until now—two thousand ducats in that diamond ,  and other precious ,  precious jewels ! 
I would my daughter were dead at my foot and the jewels in her ear ! 	I wish my daughter were dead at my feet wearing those jewels ! 
would she were hearsed at my foot and the ducats in her coffin ! 	I wish she were in her coffin here ,  with the ducats in her coffin ! 
no news of them ? 	you couldn’t find out anything about them ? 
why ,  so . 	why ? 
and I know not what’s spent in the search . 	I don’t even know how much I’m spending to find them . 
why thou ,  loss upon loss ! 	loss upon loss ! 
yes ,  other men have ill luck too . 	well ,  other men have bad luck too . 
antonio ,  as I heard in Genoa— What ,  what ,  what ? 	antonio ,  as I heard in Genoa— What ,  what ,  what ? 
Ill luck ,  ill luck ? 	bad luck ,  bad luck ? 
hath an argosy cast away coming from Tripolis . 	he’s had a ship wrecked coming from Tripolis . 
I thank God ,  I thank God ! 	thank God ,  thank God ! 
Is ’t true ,  is ’t true ? 	Is it true ,  is it true ? 
I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack . 	I spoke with some of the sailors who survived the wreck . 
I thank thee ,  good Tubal . 	thank you ,  Tubal . 
good news ,  good news ! 	good news ,  good news ! 
ha ,  ha ,  heard in Genoa . 	ha ,  ha ,  heard in Genoa . 
your daughter spent in Genoa ,  as I heard ,  in one night fourscore ducats . 	I also heard that your daughter spent eighty ducats in Genoa one night . 
thou stickest a dagger in me . 	oh ,  you’re sticking a dagger in me ! 
I shall never see my gold again . 	I’ll never see my gold again . 
fourscore ducats at a sitting ! 	eighty ducats in one shot ! 
fourscore ducats ! 	eighty ducats ! 
there came divers of Antonio’s creditors in my company to Venice that swear he cannot choose but break . 	I came to Venice with a number of Antonio’s creditors who say he won’t be able to avoid going bankrupt . 
I am very glad of it . 	I’m very glad about that . 
I’ll plague him . 	I’ll hound him . 
I’ll torture him . 	I’ll torture him . 
I am glad of it . 	I’m very glad . 
one of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey . 	one creditor showed me a ring he got from your daughter in exchange for a monkey . 
out upon her ! 	damn her ! 
thou torturest me ,  Tubal . 	you’re torturing me ,  Tubal . 
It was my turquoise . 	that was my turquoise ring ! 
I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor . 	leah gave it to me before we were married . 
I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys . 	I wouldn’t have given it away for a whole jungle of monkeys . 
but Antonio is certainly undone . 	but Antonio’s certainly ruined . 
nay ,  that’s true ,  that’s very true . 	that’s true ,  that’s very true . 
bespeak him a fortnight before . —I will have the heart of him if he forfeit ,  for were he out of Venice I can make what merchandise I will . —Go ,  go ,  Tubal ,  and meet me at our synagogue . 	with him out of Venice ,  I can make whatever bargains I want when I lend money . —Go ,  Tubal . 
go ,  good Tubal . 	meet me at the synagogue . 
at our synagogue ,  Tubal . 	let me choose now . 
before you hazard ,  for in choosing wrong I lose your company . 	I feel tortured by all this talking . 
therefore forbear awhile . 	tortured , 
there may as well be amity and life 'Tween snow and fire ,  as treason and my love . 	they’re as opposite as hot and cold . 
promise me life ,  and I’ll confess the truth . 	promise me you’ll let me live ,  and I’ll confess the truth . 
well then ,  confess and live . 	all right then ,  confess and live . 
confess and love ”  Had been the very sum of my confession . 	confess and love ”  is more like it . 
but let me to my fortune and the caskets . 	but let me try my luck on the boxes . 
away ,  then . 	go ahead ,  then . 
I am locked in one of them . 	I’m locked in one of them . 
If you do love me you will find me out . — Nerissa and the rest ,  stand all aloof . 	If you really love me ,  you’ll find me . —Nerissa and the rest of you ,  get away from him . 
let music sound while he doth make his choice . 	play some music while he chooses . 
then if he lose he makes a swanlike end ,  Fading in music . 	then if he loses ,  it’ll be his swan song ,  music before the end . 
he may win ,  And what is music then ? 	what music should we play then ? 
the rest aloof are the Dardanian wives ,  With blearèd visages come forth to view The issue of th' exploit . —Go ,  Hercules ! 	we’ve all come out to see what will happen . —Go ,  Hercules ! 
live thou ,  I live . 	If you survive ,  I’ll live . 
with much ,  much more dismay I view the fight than thou that makest the fray . 	I’m more anxious watching you fight than you are in the fight itself . 
ding ,  dong ,  bell . 	ding ,  dong ,  bell . 
how many cowards whose hearts are all as false As stairs of sand wear yet upon their chins The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars ,  Who ,  inward searched ,  have livers white as milk ,  And these assume but valor’s excrement To render them redoubted . 	how many people are cowards at heart but wear beards like Hercules or Mars ,  the god of war ? 
so are those crispèd snaky golden locks Which maketh such wanton gambols with the wind ,  Upon supposèd fairness ,  often known To be the dowry of a second head ,  The skull that bred them in the sepulcher . 	curly golden hair moves so nicely in the wind and makes a woman beautiful . 
thus ornament is but the guilèd shore To a most dangerous sea ,  the beauteous scarf Veiling an Indian beauty—in a word ,  The seeming truth which cunning times put on To entrap the wisest . 	a lovely ,  cunning shore can distract a man from the perils of a stormy sea ,  just as a pretty scarf can hide a dangerous dark - skinned beauty . 
therefore then ,  thou gaudy gold ,  Hard food for Midas ,  I will none of thee . 	so I’ll have nothing to do with that gaudy gold box—it’s like the gold that Midas couldn’t eat . 
since this fortune falls to you ,  Be content and seek no new . 	since this prize is yours ,  Be happy with it ,  and don’t look for a new one . 
If you be well pleased with this And hold your fortune for your bliss ,  Turn you where your lady is And claim her with a loving kiss .  ” 	If you’re happy with what you’ve won And accept this prize as your blissful destiny ,  Then turn to where your lady is ,  And claim her with a loving kiss .  ” 
a gentle scroll . 	a nice message . 
fair lady ,  by your leave ,  I come by note to give and to receive . 	my lady ,  with your permission ,  this note authorizes me to give myself to you with a kiss . 
like one of two contending in a prize That thinks he hath done well in people’s eyes ,  Hearing applause and universal shout ,  Giddy in spirit ,  still gazing in a doubt Whether these pearls of praise be his or no— So ,  thrice fair lady ,  stand I even so ,  As doubtful whether what I see be true Until confirmed ,  signed ,  ratified by you . 	and so ,  beautiful lady ,  I’m standing here just like that ,  wondering whether all this can be true until you tell me it is . 
you see me ,  Lord Bassanio ,  where I stand Such as I am . 	you see me standing here ,  Lord Bassanio . 
though for myself alone I would not be ambitious in my wish To wish myself much better ,  yet for you I would be trebled twenty times myself— A thousand times more fair ,  ten thousand times more rich— That only to stand high in your account I might in virtue ,  beauties ,  livings ,  friends Exceed account . 	though I wouldn’t wish to be better for my own sake ,  for your sake I wish I were twenty times more than myself—a thousand times more beautiful and ten thousand times richer—just so you might value me more ,  so my good qualities ,  beauty ,  possessions ,  and friends would be more than you could calculate . 
happier than this— She is not bred so dull but she can learn . 	I’m even happier that I’m not stupid ,  and I can learn . 
happiest of all is that her gentle spirit Commits itself to yours to be directed As from her lord ,  her governor ,  her king . 	I’m happiest of all that I’m yours now ,  my lord ,  my king ,  and you can guide me as you wish . 
myself and what is mine to you and yours Is now converted . 	everything I am and everything I have now belongs to you . 
but now I was the lord Of this fair mansion ,  master of my servants ,  Queen o'er myself . 	just a minute ago I was the owner of this beautiful mansion ,  master of these servants ,  and queen over myself . 
and even now ,  but now ,  This house ,  these servants ,  and this same myself Are yours ,  my lord’s . 	but as of right this second all these things are yours . 
I give them with this ring ,  Which when you part from ,  lose ,  or give away ,  Let it presage the ruin of your love	with this ring I give them all to you . 
I pray you ,  good Bassanio ,  let me know it . 	please let me know your plan ,  Bassanio . 
and if it stand ,  as you yourself still do ,  Within the eye of honor ,  be assured My purse ,  my person ,  my extremest means Lie all unlocked to your occasions . 	as long as it’s honorable ,  you can be sure that I’ll let you use all my money and do everything I can to help you . 
In my school days ,  when I had lost one shaft ,  I shot his fellow of the selfsame flight The selfsame way with more advisèd watch To find the other forth—and by adventuring both ,  I oft found both . 	back when I was a schoolboy ,  if I lost an arrow I would try to find it by shooting another arrow in the same direction ,  watching the second arrow more carefully than I had the first . 
I urge this childhood proof Because what follows is pure innocence . 	by risking the second arrow ,  I’d often get both of them back . 
I owe you much ,  and ,  like a willful youth ,  That which I owe is lost . 	I’m telling you this story for a reason . 
you know me well ,  and herein spend but time To wind about my love with circumstance . 	I owe you a lot ,  and like a spoiled kid I’ve lost what I owe you . 
and out of doubt you do me now more wrong In making question of my uttermost Than if you had made waste of all I have . 	but if you’d be willing to shoot another arrow the same way you shot the first ,  I’ll watch your arrow more carefully this time . 
then do but say to me what I should do That in your knowledge may by me be done ,  And I am pressed unto it . 	just tell me what to do ,  and I’ll do it . 
therefore speak . 	tell me . 
o ,  then be bold to say Bassanio’s dead ! 	If you see me without it ,  you can be confident I’m dead . 
my lord and lady ,  it is now our time ,  That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper ,  To cry ,   “ Good joy ,  good joy ,  my lord and lady !  ”  My Lord Bassanio and my gentle lady ,  I wish you all the joy that you can wish ,  For I am sure you can wish none from me . 	now we can shout ,   “ Congratulations ,  congratulations ,  my lord and lady !  ”  My Lord Bassanio ,  and my dear lady ,  I wish you all the joy I can wish for . 
and when your honors mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith ,  I do beseech you Even at that time I may be married too . 	and when you get married ,  I hope I can be married at the same time . 
with all my heart ,  so thou canst get a wife . 	absolutely ,  if you can find a wife by then . 
I thank your lordship ,  you have got me one . 	I think I’ve found one already ,  thanks to you ,  my lord . 
what ,  and stake down ? 	and do you mean what you’re saying ,  Gratiano ? 
what ,  and my old Venetian friend Salerio ? 	yes ,  my lord . 
lorenzo and Salerio ,  welcome hither ,  If that the youth of my new interest here Have power to bid you welcome . 	hey ,  if I lay down my  “  Welcome ,  Lorenzo and Salerio . 
so do I ,  my lord . 	I do too ,  my lord . 
they are entirely welcome . 	they’re entirely welcome . 
and I have reason for it . 	that’s true ,  and with good reason . 
signor Antonio Commends him to you . 	this letter is for you from Signor Antonio . 
ere I ope his letter ,  I pray you tell me how my good friend doth . 	before I open this letter ,  please tell me how my good friend is doing . 
not sick ,  my lord ,  unless it be in mind ,  Nor well ,  unless in mind . 	he’s not sick ,  my lord ,  but he’s very upset ,  and his problems are serious . 
his letter there Will show you his estate . 	his letter will tell you how he’s doing . 
there are some shrewd contents in yond same paper That steals the color from Bassanio’s cheek . 	I wish you’d won the  Something bad in that letter is making Bassanio turn pale . 
some dear friend dead ,  else nothing in the world Could turn so much the constitution Of any constant man . 	some good friend of his must have died ,  because nothing else in the world could change a man so much . 
what ,  worse and worse ? — With leave ,  Bassanio ,  I am half yourself ,  And I must freely have the half of anything That this same paper brings you . 	what ,  does the news only get worse ? —Please ,  Bassanio ,  I’m half of you ,  so let me bear half the burden this letter brings you . 
o sweet Portia ,  Here are a few of the unpleasant’st words That ever blotted paper . 	oh Portia ,  these are some of the worst words that ever stained a piece of paper . 
gentle lady ,  When I did first impart my love to you ,  I freely told you ,  all the wealth I had Ran in my veins . 	my darling ,  when I gave my love to you ,  I told you that all the wealth I had ran within my veins—that I have noble blood ,  but no money . 
I was a gentleman ,  And then I told you true . 	when I said that ,  I told you the truth . 
when I told you My state was nothing ,  I should then have told you That I was worse than nothing ,  for indeed I have engaged myself to a dear friend ,  Engaged my friend to his mere enemy To feed my means . 	but my dear ,  when I said I was worth nothing ,  I was actually bragging—I should’ve said that I was worse than nothing . 
have all his ventures failed ? 	have all his business ventures failed ? 
what ,  not one hit ? 	not even one success ? 
not one ,  my lord . 	not one ,  my lord . 
besides ,  it should appear that if he had The present money to discharge the Jew ,  He would not take it . 	anyway ,  even if he had the money now ,  the Jew probably wouldn’t take it . 
never did I know A creature that did bear the shape of man So keen and greedy to confound a man . 	I’ve never seen a creature with a human shape who was so eager to destroy a man . 
he plies the duke at morning and at night ,  And doth impeach the freedom of the state If they deny him justice . 	he’s at the duke’s morning and night ,  accusing the state of harming free trade if they deny him justice . 
when I was with him I have heard him swear To Tubal and to Chus ,  his countrymen ,  That he would rather have Antonio’s flesh Than twenty times the value of the sum That he did owe him . 	when I was still living with him I heard him swear to Tubal and Cush ,  his countrymen ,  that he’d rather have Antonio’s flesh than twenty times the sum Antonio owed . 
and I know ,  my lord ,  If law ,  authority ,  and power deny not ,  It will go hard with poor Antonio . 	and I know that unless the law intervenes ,  it’ll be bad news for poor Antonio . 
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble ? 	Is this your good friend who’s in so much trouble ? 
what sum owes he the Jew ? 	how much does he owe the Jew ? 
for me ,  three thousand ducats . 	three thousand ducats . 
what ,  no more ? 	what ,  that’s all ? 
pay him six thousand and deface the bond ! 	pay him six thousand and cancel the debt . 
you shall have gold To pay the petty debt twenty times over . 	I’ll give you enough gold to pay back your debt twenty times over . 
when it is paid ,  bring your true friend along . 	when it’s paid ,  bring your friend back . 
my maid Nerissa and myself meantime Will live as maids and widows . 	until you get back ,  Nerissa and I will live like virgins and widows . 
bid your friends welcome ,  show a merry cheer . 	put on a happy face ,  and welcome your friends . 
but let me hear the letter of your friend . 	but let me hear the letter from your friend . 
sweet Bassanio ,  my ships have all miscarried . 	dear Bassanio ,  my ships have all been wrecked . 
my creditors grow cruel . 	my creditors are getting mean . 
my estate is very low . 	my money’s almost run out . 
my bond to the Jew is forfeit . 	I couldn’t pay my debt to the Jew on the due date . 
notwithstanding ,  use your pleasure . 	In any case ,  do what you want . 
If your love do not persuade you to come ,  let not my letter .  ”  O love ,  dispatch all business and be gone ! 	If your affection for me doesn’t convince you to come ,  don’t let my letter do so .  ”  Oh ,  my darling ,  make your arrangements and go ! 
since I have your good leave to go away ,  I will make haste . 	since you’re letting me leave ,  I’ll hurry . 
but till I come again ,  No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay ,  No rest be interposer ’twixt us twain . 	but I won’t sleep till I get back . 
jailer ,  look to him . 	jailer ,  watch out for this one . 
this is the fool that lent out money gratis . 	this is the fool who lent out money without charging interest . 
jailer ,  look to him . 	jailer ,  keep an eye on him . 
hear me yet ,  good Shylock . 	listen to me ,  good Shylock . 
I pray thee ,  hear me speak . 	I’m going to get my  Please ,  listen to me . 
I’ll have my bond . 	I want my bond . 
I will not hear thee speak . 	I won’t listen to you . 
I’ll have my bond ,  and therefore speak no more . 	I want my bond ,  so stop talking . 
I’ll not be made a soft and dull - eyed fool To shake the head ,  relent and sigh ,  and yield To Christian intercessors . 	I won’t be taken for a fool who sighs and gives in to Christian meddlers . 
follow not . 	don’t follow me . 
I’ll have no speaking . 	I’m not talking with you . 
I will have my bond . 	I want my bond . 
It is the most impenetrable cur That ever kept with men . 	he’s the most stubborn dog that ever lived among humans . 
let him alone . 	leave him alone . 
I’ll follow him no more with bootless prayers . 	I won’t follow him around with useless pleas anymore . 
he seeks my life . 	he wants me dead . 
his reason well I know . 	I know the real reason . 
I oft delivered from his forfeitures Many that have at times made moan to me . 	I’ve often given money to people who were unable to pay back their loans to him . 
therefore he hates me . 	that’s why he hates me . 
I am sure the duke Will never grant this forfeiture to hold . 	I’m sure the duke will never allow this contract to be enforced . 
therefore go . 	so go . 
these griefs and losses have so bated me ,  That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh Tomorrow to my bloody creditor . — Well ,  jailer ,  on . —Pray God Bassanio come To see me pay his debt ,  and then I care not . 	I’ve lost so much weight worrying about my losses have that I’ll hardly have a pound of flesh to spare for my bloody creditor tomorrow . —Well ,  jailer ,  let’s go . —I hope to God that Bassanio comes to see me pay his debt . 
lorenzo ,  I commit into your hands The husbandry and manage of my house Until my lord’s return . 	lorenzo ,  please take charge of the management of my house until my husband comes back . 
madam ,  with all my heart . 	madam ,  with all my heart . 
I shall obey you in all fair commands . 	I’ll do anything you ask . 
my people do already know my mind And will acknowledge you and Jessica In place of Lord Bassanio and myself . 	they’ll consider you and Jessica masters of this house in place of Lord Bassanio and myself . 
so fare you well till we shall meet again . 	so goodbye until we meet again . 
fare you well ,  Jessica . 	goodbye ,  Jessica . 
now ,  Balthazar ,  As I have ever found thee honest true ,  So let me find thee still . 	now ,  Balthazar ,  you’ve always been honest and faithful to me ,  and I trust you still are . 
sometimes from her eyes I did receive fair speechless messages . 	sometimes the expression on her face tells me she likes me . 
her name is Portia ,  nothing undervalued To Cato’s daughter ,  Brutus' Portia . 	her name is Portia . 
I shall be there before thee . 	I’ll meet you at the ferry . 
madam ,  I go with all convenient speed . 	I’ll go as fast as I can ,  madam . 
come on ,  Nerissa ,  I have work in hand That you yet know not of . 	come on ,  Nerissa ,  I have many things to do that you don’t even know about yet . 
we’ll see our husbands Before they think of us . 	we’ll see our husbands before they even have a chance to miss us . 
shall they see us ? 	will they see us ? 
they shall ,  Nerissa ,  but in such a habit That they shall think we are accomplishèd With that we lack . 	they will ,  Nerissa ,  but we’ll be disguised as men . 
and twenty of these puny lies I’ll tell ,  That men shall swear I have discontinued school Above a twelvemonth . 	I’ll tell twenty lies like that ,  so men will think I graduated from school at least a year ago . 
I have within my mind A thousand raw tricks of these bragging jacks Which I will practice . 	I know a thousand immature tricks like that ,  and I’ll use them all . 
why ,  shall we turn to men ? 	why ,  are we turning to men ? 
fie ,  what a question’s that If thou wert near a lewd interpreter ! 	what kind of question is that ! 
but come ,  I’ll tell thee all my whole device When I am in my coach ,  which stays for us At the park gate . 	here ,  I’ll tell you my whole plan in my carriage ,  which is waiting for us at the gate . 
and therefore haste away ,  For we must measure twenty miles today . 	so hurry up ,  because we have twenty miles to cover today . 
yes ,  truly ,  for look you ,  the sins of the father are to be laid upon the children . 	yes ,  look ,  it’s true that children are punished for the sins of their fathers . 
therefore I promise ye I fear you . 	that’s why I’m worried about you . 
I was always plain with you ,  and so now I speak my agitation of the matter . 	I’ve always been straightforward with you ,  so now I’m telling you what I think . 
therefore be o' good cheer ,  for truly I think you are damned . 	cheer up ,  because I think you’re going to hell . 
there is but one hope in it that can do you any good ,  and that is but a kind of bastard hope neither . 	there’s only one hope for you ,  and even that’s a kind of illegitimate hope . 
and what hope is that ,  I pray thee ? 	what hope is that ,  may I ask ? 
marry ,  you may partly hope that your father got you not ,  that you are not the Jew’s daughter . 	you can hope your father isn’t your real father . 
that were a kind of bastard hope indeed . 	that really is an illegitimate hope . 
so the sins of my mother should be visited upon me . 	then I’d be punished for the sins of my mother . 
truly then I fear you are damned both by father and mother . 	In that case I’m afraid you’re damned by both your father and your mother . 
thus when I shun Scylla your father ,  I fall into Charybdis your mother . 	when you avoid one trap ,  you fall into another . 
well ,  you are gone both ways . 	you’re in trouble either way . 
I shall be saved by my husband . 	my husband will save me . 
he hath made me a Christian . 	he’s made me a Christian . 
truly ,  the more to blame he . 	he was wrong to do that . 
we were Christians eno' before ,  e'en as many as could well live one by another . 	there were enough Christians before—as many of them as could stand to live near each other . 
this making Christians will raise the price of hogs . 	all these new Christians will make the price of hogs go up . 
If we grow all to be pork - eaters ,  we shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money . 	If we’re all pork - eaters ,  we won’t be able to get our hands on a slice of bacon ,  even if we’ve got the money for it . 
I’ll tell my husband ,  Launcelot ,  what you say . 	I’ll tell my husband what you’ve said ,  Launcelot . 
here he comes . 	here he comes . 
I shall grow jealous of you shortly ,  Launcelot ,  if you thus get my wife into corners . 	you’re going to make me jealous ,  Launcelot ,  if you keep taking my wife into dark corners like this ! 
nay ,  you need not fear us ,  Lorenzo . 	no ,  you don’t need to worry about us ,  Lorenzo . 
launcelot and I are out . 	launcelot and I can’t agree on anything . 
he tells me flatly there is no mercy for me in heaven because I am a Jew’s daughter ,  and he says you are no good member of the commonwealth ,  for in converting Jews to Christians you raise the price of pork . 	he says I won’t get into heaven because I’m a Jew’s daughter ,  and he says you’re irresponsible because by converting Jews to Christianity you’re raising the price of pork . 
I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than you can the getting up of the Negro’s belly . 	I can justify that better than you can justify sleeping with Portia’s African servant . 
It is much that the Moor should be more than reason . 	the  It’s too bad there’s more of the Moor than there ought to be . 
I think the best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence ,  and discourse grow commendable in none only but parrots . 	I think the best sign of intelligence will soon be silence ,  and talking will only be a good thing for parrots to do . 
that is done ,  sir . 	that’s already been done ,  sir . 
they have all stomachs . 	they’re all ready to eat dinner . 
goodly Lord ,  what a wit - snapper are you ! 	good Lord ,  what a clown you are ! 
wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant ? 	are you planning on showing me all your wit at once ? 
for the table ,  sir ,  it shall be served in . 	about the table ,  sir ,  dinner will be served on it . 
for the meat ,  sir ,  it shall be covered . 	as for the food ,  it will be served in covered dishes . 
for your coming in to dinner ,  sir ,  why ,  let it be as humours and conceits shall govern . 	as for your coming in to dinner ,  just do what you feel is right . 
o dear discretion ,  how his words are suited ! 	oh ,  he’s good at bending words around ! 
how cheerest thou ,  Jessica ? 	anyway ,  how are you ,  Jessica ? 
how dost thou like the Lord Bassanio’s wife ? 	and how do you like Lord Bassanio’s wife ? 
past all expressing . 	I like her more than I can say . 
and if on earth he do not merit it ,  In reason he should never come to heaven . 	and if he doesn’t deserve this joy on earth ,  he’ll never deserve it in heaven . 
why ,  if two gods should play some heavenly match And on the wager lay two earthly women ,  And Portia one ,  there must be something else Pawned with the other ,  for the poor rude world Hath not her fellow . 	the poor rude world doesn’t have her equal . 
even such a husband Hast thou of me as she is for a wife . 	as good a wife as she is ,  that’s how good a husband I am to you . 
first let us go to dinner . 	first let’s go to dinner . 
nay ,  let me praise you while I have a stomach . 	no ,  let me say some good things about you while I’m in the mood . 
no ,  pray thee ,  let it serve for table talk . 	no ,  please ,  save it for dinner conversation . 
what ,  is Antonio here ? 	Is Antonio here ? 
ready ,  so please your grace . 	yes ,  sir ,  I’m here . 
I am sorry for thee . 	I feel sorry for you . 
thou art come to answer A stony adversary ,  an inhuman wretch Uncapable of pity ,  void and empty From any dram of mercy . 	you’ve come to face a ruthless enemy ,  an inhuman wretch incapable of pity ,  without any feelings of mercy . 
I have heard Your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify His rigorous course . 	they tell me you’ve done everything you can to talk him out of what he’s doing . 
but since he stands obdurate And that no lawful means can carry me Out of his envy’s reach ,  I do oppose My patience to his fury ,  and am armed To suffer with a quietness of spirit The very tyranny and rage of his . 	I’m ready to suffer peacefully whatever he does to me in his cruelty and anger . 
go ,  one ,  and call the Jew into the court . 	one of you go call the Jew into court here . 
he is ready at the door . 	he’s standing ready outside the door . 
he comes ,  my lord . 	here he comes ,  my lord . 
we all expect a gentle answer ,  Jew . 	we all expect a nice answer from you ,  Jew . 
I have possessed your grace of what I purpose ,  And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn To have the due and forfeit of my bond . 	I’ve told you what I intend to do ,  and I’ve sworn by the holy Sabbath to seek the penalty that is due according to our contract . 
If you deny it ,  let the danger light Upon your charter and your city’s freedom . 	If you refuse to allow me to do so ,  your city’s charter and its freedom are endangered . 
you’ll ask me why I rather choose to have A weight of carrion flesh than to receive Three thousand ducats . 	you’re going to ask me why I’d rather have a pound of decaying flesh than three thousand ducats . 
I’ll not answer that But say it is my humour . 	I won’t answer that . 
Is it answered ? 	Is that enough of an answer ? 
what if my house be troubled with a rat And I be pleased to give ten thousand ducats To have it baned ? 	what if I had a rat in my house ,  and I felt like paying ten thousand ducats to have it exterminated ? 
what ,  are you answered yet ? 	do you have your answer yet ? 
some men there are love not a gaping pig ,  Some that are mad if they behold a cat ,  And others ,  when the bagpipe sings i' th' nose ,  Cannot contain their urine . 	some men don’t like roast pig ,  others go crazy if they see a cat ,  and others can’t help urinating when they hear bagpipes . 
are you answered ? 	so ,  to answer your question . 
this is no answer ,  thou unfeeling man ,  To excuse the current of thy cruelty . 	It doesn’t excuse your cruel behavior . 
I am not bound to please thee with my answers . 	I don’t have to give you answers that you like . 
do all men kill the things they do not love ? 	does everyone kill what they don’t love ? 
what ,  wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice ? 	what ,  would you let a snake bite you twice ? 
you may as well do anything most hard ,  As seek to soften that—than which what’s harder ? — His Jewish heart . 	you might as well do the impossible rather than try to soften his Jewish heart . 
I would have my bond . 	I would choose to take my penalty . 
how shalt thou hope for mercy ,  rendering none ? 	how can you ever hope for mercy for yourself ,  when you don’t give any now ? 
what judgment shall I dread ,  doing no wrong ? 	why should I be afraid of your judgment when I haven’t done anything wrong ? 
you have among you many a purchased slave ,  Which—like your asses and your dogs and mules— You use in abject and in slavish parts Because you bought them . 	many of you own slaves ,  which—like your donkeys and dogs and mules—you use to perform awful jobs just because you bought them . 
shall I say to you ,   “ Let them be free ! 	should I say to you ,   “ Set them free ! 
marry them to your heirs ! 	let them marry your children ! 
why sweat they under burdens ? 	why are you making them work so hard ? 
let their beds Be made as soft as yours and let their palates Be seasoned with such viands ”  ? 	let their beds be as soft as yours ,  and let them eat the same food as you ”  ? 
you will answer ,   “ The slaves are ours .  ”  So do I answer you . 	no ,  you’d answer ,   “ The slaves are ours .  ”  And that’s just how I’m answering you . 
the pound of flesh which I demand of him Is dearly bought . 	the pound of flesh that I want from him was very expensive . 
tis mine and I will have it . 	It’s mine and I’m going to get it . 
If you deny me ,  fie upon your law— There is no force in the decrees of Venice . 	If you refuse me ,  the laws of Venice have no validity . 
I stand for judgment . 	I await justice . 
by my troth ,  Nerissa ,  my little body is aweary of this great world . 	oh Nerissa ,  my poor little body is tired of this great big world . 
and yet for aught I see ,  they are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing . 	but as far as I can tell ,  people with too much suffer as much as people with nothing . 
It is no mean happiness ,  therefore ,  to be seated in the mean . 	the best way to be happy is to be in between . 
good sentences ,  and well pronounced . 	good point ,  and well said . 
they would be better if well followed . 	It would be better if you actually applied it to your life . 
It is a good divine that follows his own instructions . 	It takes a good priest to practice what he preaches . 
but this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband . 	but thinking like this won’t help me choose a husband . 
Is it not hard ,  Nerissa ,  that I cannot choose one nor refuse none ? 	Isn’t it a pain that I can’t choose or refuse anyone ,  Nerissa ? 
upon my power I may dismiss this court ,  Unless Bellario ,  a learnèd doctor ,  Whom I have sent for to determine this ,  Come here today . 	I have the authority to dismiss this court ,  unless Bellario comes today . 
bring us the letter . 	bring us the letters . 
call the messenger . 	call the messenger in . 
good cheer ,  Antonio ! 	cheer up ,  Antonio ! 
what ,  man ,  courage yet ! 	keep up your courage ,  man ! 
the Jew shall have my flesh ,  blood ,  bones and all ,  Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood . 	I’ll give the Jew my flesh ,  blood ,  bones ,  and everything before you lose one drop of blood for me . 
I am a tainted wether of the flock ,  Meetest for death . 	I’m like the one sick sheep in the flock ,  the one who deserves to die . 
the weakest kind of fruit Drops earliest to the ground ,  and so let me . 	the weakest fruit drops to the ground first ,  so let me drop . 
you cannot better be employed ,  Bassanio ,  Than to live still and write mine epitaph . 	bassanio ,  the best thing you can do is to keep living and write an epitaph for my gravestone . 
came you from Padua ,  from Bellario ? 	have you come from Bellario’s office in Padua ? 
from both ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
bellario greets your grace . 	bellario sends his greetings . 
to cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there . 	to cut my penalty from that bankrupt man over there . 
not on thy sole ,  but on thy soul ,  harsh Jew ,  Thou makest thy knife keen . 	you’re sharpening that knife not on your sole but on your soul ,  you cruel Jew . 
but no metal can— No ,  not the hangman’s axe—bear half the keenness Of thy sharp envy . 	no metal—not even the executioner’s axe—could ever be half as sharp as your hatred . 
can no prayers pierce thee ? 	can’t any prayers reach your heart ? 
no ,  none that thou hast wit enough to make . 	no ,  none that you’re smart enough to make . 
thou almost makest me waver in my faith To hold opinion with Pythagoras That souls of animals infuse themselves Into the trunks of men . 	you make me want to agree with the philosopher Pythagoras that animal souls are reincarnated in human bodies . 
thy currish spirit Governed a wolf who ,  hanged for human slaughter ,  Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet ,  And whilst thou layest in thy unhallowed dam Infused itself in thee ,  for thy desires Are wolvish ,  bloody ,  starved ,  and ravenous . 	that’s why your desires are wolfish ,  bloody ,  and ravenous . 
till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond ,  Thou but offend’st thy lungs to speak so loud . 	unless your taunts can undo the signature on my contract ,  you’re just wearing out your lungs by speaking so loud . 
repair thy wit ,  good youth ,  or it will fall To cureless ruin . 	be quiet ,  boy ,  or you’ll lose your mind . 
I stand here for law . 	I stand here with the law on my side . 
this letter from Bellario doth commend A young and learnèd doctor to our court . 	this letter from Bellario introduces us to a young and well - educated legal expert . 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
he attendeth here hard by To know your answer whether you’ll admit him . 	he’s waiting nearby to find out if you’ll invite him in . 
with all my heart . —Some three or four of you Go give him courteous conduct to this place . — Meantime the court shall hear Bellario’s letter . 	with all my heart . —Three or four of you go welcome him . —In the meantime ,  I’ll read Bellario’s letter out loud . 
his name is Balthazar . 	his name is Balthazar . 
I leave him to your gracious acceptance ,  whose trial shall better publish his commendation .  ”  You hear the learned Bellario ,  what he writes . 	I leave him to you . 
come you from old Bellario ? 	did old Bellario send you here ? 
I did ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
you are welcome . 	welcome . 
take your place . 	please have a seat . 
are you acquainted with the difference That holds this present question in the court ? 	are you familiar with the case currently before the court ? 
I am informèd thoroughly of the cause . 	yes ,  thoroughly . 
antonio and old Shylock ,  both stand forth . 	antonio and Shylock ,  both of you come forward . 
Is your name Shylock ? 	Is your name Shylock ? 
shylock is my name . 	shylock is my name . 
of a strange nature is the suit you follow ,  Yet in such rule that the Venetian law Cannot impugn you as you do proceed . —   Ay ,  so he says . 	your case is most unusual ,  though the Venetian law can’t stop you from proceeding . — Yes ,  so he says . 
do you confess the bond ? 	do you acknowledge the contract ? 
I do . 	yes ,  I do . 
then must the Jew be merciful . 	then the Jew must show you mercy . 
on what compulsion must I ? 	why do I have to do that ? 
tell me that . 	tell me . 
the quality of mercy is not strained . 	no one shows mercy because he has to . 
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath . 	It just happens ,  the way gentle rain drops on the ground . 
It is twice blessed: It blesseth him that gives and him that takes . 	It blesses the one who gives it and the one who receives it . 
tis mightiest in the mightiest . 	It’s strongest in the strongest people . 
It becomes The thronèd monarch better than his crown . 	It looks better in a king than his own crown looks on him . 
and earthly power doth then show likest God’s When mercy seasons justice . 	kingly power seems most like God’s power when the king mixes mercy with justice . 
I have spoke thus much To mitigate the justice of thy plea ,  Which if thou follow ,  this strict court of Venice Must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there . 	If you pursue it ,  this strict court of Venice will need to carry out the sentence against the merchant there . 
my deeds upon my head . 	I take all responsibility for my decisions . 
I crave the law ,  The penalty ,  and forfeit of my bond . 	I want the law ,  the penalty ,  and the fulfillment of my contract . 
Is he not able to discharge the money ? 	can’t he pay back the money ? 
If that will not suffice ,  I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er ,  On forfeit of my hands ,  my head ,  my heart . 	If that’s not enough ,  I’ll sign a contract to pay ten times that much ,  and I’ll give you my hands ,  my head ,  and my heart as security . 
there is no power in Venice Can alter a decree establishèd . 	there’s no power in Venice that can change an established decree . 
twill be recorded for a precedent ,  And many an error by the same example Will rush into the state . 	the change will be recorded as a precedent ,  and many bad legal decisions will result . 
It cannot be . 	that can’t happen . 
I pray you ,  let me look upon the bond . 	please ,  let me review the contract . 
shylock ,  there’s thrice thy money offered thee . 	shylock ,  they’re offering you three times the money you lent . 
an oath ,  an oath ,  I have an oath in heaven . 	but I made an oath ,  an oath ,  an oath in heaven . 
shall I lay perjury upon my soul ? 	should I perjure my soul by disobeying it ? 
no ,  not for Venice . 	no ,  not for all of Venice . 
and lawfully by this the Jew may claim A pound of flesh to be by him cut off Nearest the merchant’s heart . —Be merciful . 	and so the Jew may lawfully claim a pound of flesh nearest the merchant’s heart ,  to be cut off by him . —But please have mercy . 
take thrice thy money . 	take three times your money . 
bid me tear the bond . 	tell me to tear up this contract . 
when it is paid according to the tenor . 	I’ll tear it up when it’s paid . 
It doth appear you are a worthy judge . 	you seem like a good judge . 
you know the law . 	you know the law . 
I charge you by the law ,  Whereof you are a well - deserving pillar ,  Proceed to judgment . 	I urge you to deliver your verdict . 
by my soul I swear There is no power in the tongue of man To alter me . 	I swear that nothing anyone can say will change my mind . 
I stay here on my bond . 	I’m sticking to the contract . 
most heartily I do beseech the court To give the judgment . 	I beg the court to deliver the verdict . 
why then ,  thus it is: You must prepare your bosom for his knife . 	well ,  then ,  here it is: you must prepare yourself for his knife . 
o noble judge ! 	oh ,  good judge ! 
o excellent young man ! 	oh ,  you excellent young man ! 
for the intent and purpose of the law Hath full relation to the penalty ,  Which here appeareth due upon the bond . 	the law fully authorizes the penalty ,  which you have to pay according to the contract . 
tis very true . 	very true . 
o wise and upright judge ! 	oh wise judge ! 
how much more elder art thou than thy looks ! 	you’re so much older than you look ! 
ay ,  his breast . 	yes ,  his chest ! 
nearest his heart ” —those are the very words . 	nearest his heart .  ” —Those are the very words . 
It is so . 	yes . 
are there balance here to weigh The flesh ? 	Is there a scale here to weigh the flesh ? 
I have them ready . 	I have it ready . 
have by some surgeon ,  Shylock ,  on your charge ,  To stop his wounds lest he do bleed to death . 	pay a surgeon to stand by and bind his wounds ,  Shylock ,  so he doesn’t bleed to death . 
Is it so nominated in the bond ? 	Is that called for in the contract ? 
It is not so expressed ,  but what of that ? 	not explicitly ,  but so what ? 
twere good you do so much for charity . 	It wouldn’t hurt you to be charitable . 
I cannot find it . 	I can’t find it . 
tis not in the bond . 	It’s not in the contract . 
but little . 	not much . 
I am armed and well prepared . — Give me your hand ,  Bassanio . 	I’m ready and waiting . —Give me your hand ,  Bassanio . 
fare you well . 	goodbye . 
grieve not that I am fall'n to this for you ,  For herein Fortune shows herself more kind Than is her custom . 	don’t be sad that this happened because of you ,  because Lady Luck’s been nicer to me than usual . 
repent but you that you shall lose your friend ,  And he repents not that he pays your debt . 	be sad only at the fact that you’ll lose your friend—your friend doesn’t regret that he paid your debt . 
for if the Jew do cut but deep enough ,  I’ll pay it presently with all my heart . 	If the Jew cuts deep enough ,  I’ll pay it instantly with all my heart . 
antonio ,  I am married to a wife Which is as dear to me as life itself . 	antonio ,  I married a woman as dear to me as life itself . 
but life itself ,  my wife ,  and all the world Are not with me esteemed above thy life . 	but life itself ,  my wife ,  and the whole world aren’t more valuable to me than your life is . 
I would lose all—ay ,  sacrifice them all Here to this devil—to deliver you . 	I’d give it all up—yes ,  I’d sacrifice them all to this devil here—to save you . 
your wife would give you little thanks for that If she were by to hear you make the offer . 	your wife wouldn’t like it if she were here to hear you make that offer . 
I have a wife ,  whom I protest I love . 	I have a wife I love . 
I would she were in heaven ,  so she could Entreat some power to change this currish Jew . 	I wish she were in heaven so she could appeal to some power to make this dog Jew change his mind . 
tis well you offer it behind her back . 	It’s nice you’re offering to sacrifice her behind her back . 
these be the Christian husbands . 	that’s what you get for marrying Christian husbands . 
I have a daughter . 	I have a daughter . 
the court awards it ,  and the law doth give it . 	the court awards it and the law authorizes it . 
most rightful judge ! 	what a righteous judge ! 
and you must cut this flesh from off his breast . 	and you have to cut this flesh from his chest . 
the law allows it ,  and the court awards it . 	the law allows it ,  and the court awards it . 
most learnèd judge ,  a sentence ! 	what a wise judge ! 
come ,  prepare . 	come on ,  get ready . 
tarry a little . 	but wait a moment . 
there is something else . 	there’s something else . 
this bond doth give thee here no jot of blood . 	this contract doesn’t give you any blood at all . 
the words expressly are  “ a pound of flesh .  ”  Take then thy bond ,  take thou thy pound of flesh ,  But in the cutting it if thou dost shed One drop of Christian blood ,  thy lands and goods Are by the laws of Venice confiscate Unto the state of Venice . 	the words expressly specify  “ a pound of flesh .  ”  So take your penalty of a pound of flesh ,  but if you shed one drop of Christian blood when you cut it ,  the state of Venice will confiscate your land and property under Venetian law . 
Is that the law ? 	Is that the law ? 
thyself shalt see the act . 	you can see for yourself . 
for as thou urgest justice ,  be assured Thou shalt have justice more than thou desirest . 	you asked for justice ,  so rest assured you’ll get more justice than you bargained for . 
I take this offer then: pay the bond thrice And let the Christian go . 	pay me three times the amount of the loan and let the Christian go . 
here is the money . 	here is the money . 
soft ! 	wait ! 
the Jew shall have all justice . 	the Jew will have justice . 
soft ,  no haste . 	wait ,  don’t rush ! 
he shall have nothing but the penalty . 	he’s not getting anything except the penalty . 
therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh . 	so get ready to cut off the flesh . 
shed thou no blood ,  nor cut thou less nor more But just a pound of flesh . 	don’t shed any blood ,  or cut less or more than exactly a pound of flesh . 
If thou takest more Or less than a just pound ,  be it but so much As makes it light or heavy in the substance Or the division of the twentieth part Of one poor scruple—nay ,  if the scale do turn But in the estimation of a hair ,  Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate . 	If you take more or less than exactly a pound ,  even if it’s just the tiniest fraction of an ounce—if the scale changes by even so much as a hair ,  you die ,  and all your property will be confiscated . 
a second Daniel ! —A Daniel ,  Jew ! 	a second Daniel ! —A Daniel ,  Jew ! 
now ,  infidel ,  I have you on the hip . 	I’ve got you now ,  pagan . 
why doth the Jew pause ? 	why is the Jew waiting ? 
take thy forfeiture . 	take your penalty . 
give me my principal ,  and let me go . 	give me my money and let me go . 
I have it ready for thee . 	I have it ready for you . 
here it is . 	here it is . 
your father was ever virtuous ,  and holy men at their death have good inspirations . 	your father was an extremely moral man ,  and religious people get odd ideas on their deathbeds . 
I pray thee ,  overname them . 	but tell me . 
first ,  there is the Neapolitan prince . 	well ,  first there was the prince from Naples . 
I am much afeard my lady his mother played false with a smith . 	I’m afraid his mother may have had an affair with a blacksmith . 
then there is the County Palatine . 	then there’s the Count Palatine . 
he doth nothing but frown ,  as who should say ,   “ An you will not have me ,  choose .  ”  He hears merry tales and smiles not . 	he does nothing but frown ,  as if he wants to say ,   “ If you don’t want me ,  I don’t care .  ”  He doesn’t even smile when he hears funny stories . 
I fear he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old ,  being so full of unmannerly sadness in his youth . 	If he’s so sad and solemn when he’s young ,  I can only imagine how much he’ll cry as an old man . 
I had rather be married to a death’s - head with a bone in his mouth than to either of these . 	no ,  I’d rather be married to a skull with a bone in its mouth than to either of those men . 
god defend me from these two ! 	god protect me from these two ! 
how say you by the French lord ,  Monsieur le Bon ? 	what did you think about that French lord ,  Monsieur le Bon ? 
he hath refused it in the open court . 	no ,  he refused it publicly ,  in open court . 
he shall have merely justice and his bond . 	he will have only justice and his penalty . 
thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture To be so taken at thy peril ,  Jew . 	you can’t have anything but the penalty ,  to be taken at your peril ,  Jew . 
why then ,  the devil give him good of it ! 	well ,  then ,  I hope he chokes on it ! 
I’ll stay no longer question . 	I’m not staying here to argue anymore . 
tarry ,  Jew . 	wait a minute ,  Jew . 
the law hath yet another hold on you . 	the law has another hold on you . 
It is enacted in the laws of Venice ,  If it be proved against an alien That by direct or indirect attempts He seek the life of any citizen ,  The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive Shall seize one half his goods . 	the laws of Venice state that if a foreign resident directly or indirectly attempts to kill any citizen ,  the person he tried to kill will receive one half of the foreigner’s goods . 
the other half Comes to the privy coffer of the state ,  And the offender’s life lies in the mercy Of the Duke only 'gainst all other voice . 	the other half goes to the state . 
down ,  therefore ,  and beg mercy of the Duke . 	so get down on your knees and beg mercy from the duke . 
therefore thou must be hanged at the state’s charge . 	so you’ll be hanged at the state’s expense . 
that thou shalt see the difference of our spirit ,  I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it . 	I want you to see the difference between us ,  so I pardon you even before you ask for a pardon . 
for half thy wealth ,  it is Antonio’s . 	half of your wealth goes to Antonio . 
the other half comes to the general state ,  Which humbleness may drive unto a fine . 	the other half goes to the state . 
ay ,  for the state ,  not for Antonio . 	yes ,  the state’s half can be reduced ,  but not Antonio’s . 
nay ,  take my life and all . 	no ,  go ahead and take my life . 
pardon not that . 	don’t pardon that . 
you take my house when you do take the prop That doth sustain my house . 	you take my house away when you take the money I need for upkeep . 
you take my life When you do take the means whereby I live . 	you take my life when you take away my means of making a living . 
what mercy can you render him ,  Antonio ? 	what mercy can you show him ,  Antonio ? 
a halter gratis ,  nothing else ,  for God’s sake . 	nothing else ,  for God’s sake ! 
so please my lord the duke and all the court ,  To quit the fine for one half of his goods I am content ,  so he will let me have The other half in use to render it Upon his death unto the gentleman That lately stole his daughter . 	If the duke and his court agree to set aside the fine for one half of his property ,  I’m happy ,  as long as he lets me have the other half in trust ,  to give it to the gentleman who recently stole his daughter . 
two things provided more: that for this favor He presently become a Christian; The other ,  that he do record a gift Here in the court ,  of all he dies possessed ,  Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter . 	second ,  he must make a will here in this court that leaves all his property to his son - in - law Lorenzo and his daughter when he dies . 
he shall do this ,  or else I do recant The pardon that I late pronouncèd here . 	he must do this ,  or I’ll recant the pardon I just delivered . 
art thou contented ,  Jew ? 	are you satisfied ,  Jew ? 
what dost thou say ? 	what do you say ? 
I am content . 	I’m satisfied . 
I pray you ,  give me leave to go from hence . 	please let me go . 
I am not well . 	I’m not well . 
send the deed after me ,  And I will sign it . 	send the deed after me and I’ll sign it . 
get thee gone ,  but do it . 	go ,  but sign the deed . 
I must away this night toward Padua ,  And it is meet I presently set forth . 	I should really leave right away . 
I am sorry that your leisure serves you not . — Antonio ,  gratify this gentleman ,  For in my mind you are much bound to him . 	I’m sorry you don’t have time . —Antonio ,  give this gentleman a reward . 
and stand indebted ,  over and above ,  In love and service to you evermore . 	we owe you love and service forever . 
he is well paid that is well satisfied . 	being satisfied with a job well done is payment enough . 
and I ,  delivering you ,  am satisfied ,  And therein do account myself well paid . 	In saving you I consider myself well paid . 
my mind was never yet more mercenary . 	my thoughts were never on money . 
I pray you ,  know me when we meet again . 	I hope you’ll recognize me when we meet again . 
I wish you well ,  and so I take my leave . 	I wish you well . 
take some remembrance of us as a tribute ,  Not as a fee . 	take some memento from us as a token of our gratitude ,  not as a fee . 
this ring ,  good sir—alas ,  it is a trifle . 	this ring ,  sir—oh no ,  it’s nothing . 
I will not shame myself to give you this . 	I’d be ashamed to give you this . 
I will have nothing else but only this . 	I don’t want anything but that . 
and now methinks I have a mind to it . 	now that I think about it ,  I really want it . 
there’s more depends on this than on the value . 	there’s more to this ring than its cash value . 
the dearest ring in Venice will I give you ,  And find it out by proclamation . 	I’ll give you the most expensive ring in Venice ,  and I’ll make a public announcement to help me find it . 
only for this ,  I pray you ,  pardon me . 	but as for this ring ,  please excuse me . 
I see ,  sir ,  you are liberal in offers . 	I see you like to make big offers ,  sir . 
you taught me first to beg ,  and now methinks You teach me how a beggar should be answered . 	first you taught me how to beg ,  and now I think you’re teaching me how a beggar should be answered . 
good sir ,  this ring was given me by my wife . 	good sir ,  this ring was given to me by my wife . 
and when she put it on ,  she made me vow That I should neither sell nor give nor lose it . 	when she put it on my finger ,  she made me swear never to sell it ,  give it away ,  or lose it . 
that ’scuse serves many men to save their gifts . 	many men use that excuse to avoid giving gifts . 
an if your wife be not a madwoman ,  And know how well I have deserved the ring ,  She would not hold out enemy forever For giving it to me . 	If your wife’s not a madwoman ,  and you tell her how much I deserve this ring ,  she won’t stay angry at you forever if you give it to me . 
well ,  peace be with you . 	well ,  anyway ,  goodbye . 
my Lord Bassanio ,  let him have the ring . 	bassanio ,  let him have the ring . 
come ,  you and I will thither presently . 	come on ,  you and I will go soon . 
and in the morning early will we both Fly toward Belmont . 	early in the morning we’ll both rush to Belmont . 
come ,  Antonio . 	come on ,  Antonio . 
Inquire the Jew’s house out . 	find out where the Jew’s house is . 
give him this deed ,  And let him sign it . 	give him this deed and have him sign it . 
we’ll away tonight ,  And be a day before our husbands home . 	we’ll leave tonight and be home a day before our husbands get back . 
this deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo . 	lorenzo will be happy with what we’ve done . 
furthermore ,  I pray you show my youth old Shylock’s house . 	and could you please take my servant to old Shylock’s house ? 
that will I do . 	I’ll do that . 
away ,  make haste . 	go ,  hurry . 
thou know’st where I will tarry . 	you know where I’ll be waiting . 
the moon shines bright . 	the moon’s bright tonight . 
In such a night as this ,  When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees And they did make no noise ,  in such a night Troilus methinks mounted the Trojan walls And sighed his soul toward the Grecian tents Where Cressid lay that night . 	I think that on a night like this ,  when the wind blew the trees so gently that they didn’t make a sound ,   On a night like this ,   On a night like this ,   On a night like this , 
In such a night Did young Lorenzo swear he loved her well ,  Stealing her soul with many vows of faith ,  And ne'er a true one . 	on a night like this ,  young Lorenzo swore he loved her very much ,  stealing her heart with vows of love ,  but not one vow was true . 
In such a night Did pretty Jessica ,  like a little shrew ,  Slander her love ,  and he forgave it her . 	on a night like this ,  pretty Jessica ,  in a bad mood ,  said outrageously wrong things about her lover ,  and he forgave her . 
but ,  hark ,  I hear the footing of a man . 	I hear his footsteps . 
who comes so fast in silence of the night ? 	who are you ,  coming so fast in this quiet night ? 
a friend . 	a friend . 
a friend ? 	a friend ? 
what friend ? 	what friend ? 
your name ,  I pray you ,  friend ? 	what’s your name ,  please ,  friend ? 
stephano is my name ,  and I bring word My mistress will before the break of day Be here at Belmont . 	my name’s Stephano ,  and I’ve come to tell you my mistress will arrive here at Belmont before sunrise . 
she doth stray about By holy crosses ,  where she kneels and prays For happy wedlock hours . 	she’s still at the monastery ,  kneeling and praying for a happy marriage . 
who comes with her ? 	who’s coming with her ? 
none but a holy hermit and her maid . 	no one except her maid and a holy hermit . 
I pray you ,  is my master yet returned ? 	has my master returned yet ? 
sola ,  sola ! 	hey ,  hey ! 
wo ,  ha ,  ho ! 	hey ! 
sola ,  sola ! 	yoo - hoo ! 
who calls ? 	who’s shouting ? 
sola ! 	hey ! 
did you see Master Lorenzo ? 	have you seen Master Lorenzo ! 
leave holloaing ,  man . 	stop hollering ,  man ! 
here . 	I’m here . 
sola ! 	hey ! 
where ,  where ? 	where ,  where ? 
here . 	here . 
tell him there’s a post come from my master with his horn full of good news . 	tell him a messenger has arrived from my master with good news . 
my master will be here ere morning . 	my master will be here in the morning . 
sweet soul ,  let’s in ,  and there expect their coming . 	my dear ,  let’s go inside and wait for them to arrive . 
and yet no matter . 	but I guess it doesn’t matter . 
god made him and therefore let him pass for a man . 	we might as well call him a man ,  since God created him . 
In truth ,  I know it is a sin to be a mocker ,  but he ! —why ,  he hath a horse better than the Neapolitan’s ,  a better bad habit of frowning than the Count Palatine . 	his horse is better than the Neapolitan’s and he frowns more than the Count Palatine . 
what say you then to Falconbridge ,  the young baron of England ? 	what about Falconbridge ,  that young English baron ? 
you know I say nothing to him ,  for he understands not me ,  nor I him . 	I have no opinion about him . 
he hath neither Latin ,  French ,  nor Italian ,  and you will come into the court and swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English . 	he doesn’t speak Latin ,  French ,  or Italian ,  and you know how little English I speak . 
he is a proper man’s picture ,  but alas ,  who can converse with a dumb show ? 	he’s great - looking ,  but how can you talk to someone who doesn’t speak your language ? 
how oddly he is suited ! 	he was dressed so oddly too ! 
I think he bought his doublet in Italy ,  his round hose in France ,  his bonnet in Germany ,  and his behavior everywhere . 	I think he got his jacket in Italy ,  his tights in France ,  his hat in Germany ,  and his behavior everywhere . 
what think you of the Scottish lord ,  his neighbor ? 	what do you think of his neighbor ,  the Scottish lord ? 
how sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank ! 	how beautiful the moonlight’s shining on this bank ! 
here will we sit and let the sounds of music Creep in our ears . 	let’s sit here and let the music fill our ears . 
soft stillness and the night Become the touches of sweet harmony . 	stillness and nighttime are perfect for beautiful music . 
sit ,  Jessica . 	sit down ,  Jessica . 
look how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patens of bright gold . 	look at the stars ,  see how the floor of heaven is inlaid with small disks of bright gold . 
come ho ,  and wake Diana with a hymn ! 	wake up the moon goddess with a hymn ! 
with sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear ,  And draw her home with music . 	get her attention and draw her home with music . 
I am never merry when I hear sweet music . 	I’m never in the mood to laugh when I hear sweet music . 
the motions of his spirit are dull as night ,  And his affections dark as Erebus . 	his soul is as dull as night and dark as the underworld . 
let no such man be trusted . 	nobody like that should be trusted . 
mark the music . 	pay attention to the music . 
that light we see is burning in my hall . 	that light we see is coming from my hall . 
how far that little candle throws his beams ! 	look how far that little candle sends its light ! 
so shines a good deed in a naughty world . 	that’s the way a good deed shines in a naughty world . 
when the moon shone we did not see the candle . 	while the moon was shining we didn’t even notice the candle . 
so doth the greater glory dim the less . 	well ,  brighter lights always dim the smaller ones . 
a substitute shines brightly as a king Until a king be by ,  and then his state Empties itself ,  as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters . 	a governor shines as brightly as a king until a king is near by ,  and the governor suddenly looks like a nobody . 
music ,  hark . 	music ,  listen ! 
It is your music ,  madam ,  of the house . 	It’s your music ,  madam ,  from your house . 
nothing is good ,  I see ,  without respect . 	now I see that you can’t call anything good except in right context . 
how many things by season seasoned are To their right praise and true perfection ! 	how many things in life seem good to us because of when they happen ! 
peace ! 	quiet now ! 
how the moon sleeps with Endymion And would not be awaked . 	look how the moon seems to be sleeping with its lover and can’t be awoken ! 
that is the voice ,  Or I am much deceived ,  of Portia . 	If I’m not mistaken ,  that’s Portia’s voice . 
he knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo— By the bad voice . 	he recognizes me like a blind man recognizes a cuckoo—by its bad voice . 
dear lady ,  welcome home . 	dear lady ,  welcome home . 
we have been praying for our husbands' welfare ,  Which speed ,  we hope ,  the better for our words . 	we’ve been praying for our husbands' welfare . 
are they returned ? 	have they come back ? 
go in ,  Nerissa . 	go inside ,  Nerissa . 
give order to my servants that they take No note at all of our being absent hence . — Nor you ,  Lorenzo . —Jessica ,  nor you . 	tell my servants not to mention that we were gone . 
I hear his trumpet . 	I hear his trumpet . 
this night methinks is but the daylight sick . 	I think this night is just like sick daylight . 
It looks a little paler . 	It only looks a little paler . 
tis a day Such as the day is when the sun is hid . 	It looks like a day when the sun is hidden . 
I thank you ,  madam . 	I’ll give  Thank you ,  darling . 
give welcome to my friend . 	I’d like to introduce you to my friend . 
this is the man ,  this is Antonio ,  To whom I am so infinitely bound . 	this is Antonio ,  my dearest friend . 
sir ,  you are very welcome to our house . 	sir ,  welcome to our house . 
It must appear in other ways than words ,  Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy . 	but action speaks louder than words ,  so I’ll cut short these polite words . 
a quarrel ,  ho ,  already ? 	what ,  an argument already ? 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
about a hoop of gold ,  a paltry ring That she did give me ,  whose posy was For all the world like cutler’s poetry Upon a knife ,   “ Love me and leave me not .  ”  What talk you of the posy or the value ? 	It said ,   “ Love me and don’t leave me .  ”  How can you talk about the quality of the poem or the value of the ring ? 
you swore to me when I did give it you That you would wear it till your hour of death ,  And that it should lie with you in your grave . 	you swore to me when I gave it to you that you would wear it till you died ,  and that it would be buried with you . 
gave it a judge’s clerk ! 	and now you claim you gave it to a judge’s clerk ! 
he will ,  an if he live to be a man . 	he will if he lives long enough to become a man . 
ay ,  if a woman live to be a man . 	yes ,  if a woman grows up to be a man . 
I could not for my heart deny it him . 	I didn’t have the heart to say no to him . 
you were to blame ,  I must be plain with you ,  To part so slightly with your wife’s first gift ,  A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger And so riveted with faith unto your flesh . 	you were wrong to give away your wife’s first gift so thoughtlessly ,  a thing you swore to keep on your finger and bound faithfully to your body . 
I gave my love a ring and made him swear Never to part with it . 	I gave my lover a ring and made him swear never to lose it or give it away . 
and here he stands . 	and here he is . 
I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it Nor pluck it from his finger for the wealth That the world masters . 	I’d swear he wouldn’t leave it behind ,  or even take it off his finger ,  for all the money in the world . 
now in faith ,  Gratiano ,  You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief . 	to tell the truth ,  Gratiano ,  you’re giving your wife a valid reason to get upset . 
an ’twere to me ,  I should be mad at it . 	If it were me ,  I’d be very upset too . 
my Lord Bassanio gave his ring away Unto the judge that begged it and indeed Deserved it too . 	bassanio gave his ring to the judge who asked for it ,  and deserved it too . 
and then the boy ,  his clerk ,  That took some pains in writing ,  he begged mine . 	and then his clerk ,  who went to a lot of trouble with the writing ,  begged for mine . 
and neither man nor master would take aught But the two rings . 	neither of them would take anything but the two rings . 
what ring gave you my lord ? 	which ring did you give away ,  my lord ? 
not that ,  I hope ,  which you received of me . 	not the one I gave you ,  I hope . 
If I could add a lie unto a fault I would deny it . 	If I could make things better by lying ,  I’d deny it . 
but you see my finger Hath not the ring upon it . 	but you see my finger doesn’t have the ring on it . 
It is gone . 	It’s gone . 
sweet Portia ,  If you did know to whom I gave the ring ,  If you did know for whom I gave the ring ,  And would conceive for what I gave the ring ,  And how unwillingly I left the ring When naught would be accepted but the ring ,  You would abate the strength of your displeasure . 	my dear Portia ,  if you knew who I gave the ring to ,  for whose sake I gave the ring to him ,  why I gave it to him ,  and how unwilling I was to leave it when he wouldn’t accept anything but the ring ,  you wouldn’t be so angry . 
If you had known the virtue of the ring ,  Or half her worthiness that gave the ring ,  Or your own honor to contain the ring ,  You would not then have parted with the ring . 	If you’d known how much that ring meant ,  how much the woman who gave it to you is worth ,  or how much your honor depended on your keeping the ring ,  you wouldn’t have let it go . 
nerissa teaches me what to believe . 	nerissa’s got the right idea . 
I’ll die for ’t but some woman had the ring . 	I’ll bet my life you gave some woman the ring ! 
what should I say ,  sweet lady ? 	what could I say ,  my dear ? 
I was enforced to send it after him . 	I had to send it to him . 
let not that doctor e'er come near my house ! 	don’t let that lawyer ever come near my house ! 
since he hath got the jewel that I loved ,  And that which you did swear to keep for me ,  I will become as liberal as you . 	since he has the jewel I loved ,  which you swore you’d keep forever ,  I’ll be as generous as you were to him . 
I’ll not deny him anything I have ,  No ,  not my body ,  nor my husband’s bed . 	I won’t deny him anything of mine ,  including my own body and my husband’s bed . 
know him I shall ,  I am well sure of it . 	I’ll recognize him all right ,  I’m sure of it . 
lie not a night from home . 	so don’t spend one night away from this house . 
watch me like Argus . 	watch me like a hawk . 
If you do not ,  if I be left alone ,  Now ,  by mine honor—which is yet mine own— I’ll have that doctor for my bedfellow . 	If you don’t ,  if I’m left alone ,  I swear I’ll have that legal expert as my bedfellow . 
I am th' unhappy subject of these quarrels . 	all these quarrels are about me . 
sir ,  grieve not you . 	don’t be upset . 
portia ,  forgive me this enforcèd wrong ,  And in the hearing of these many friends I swear to thee ,  even by thine own fair eyes Wherein I see myself—     Mark you but that ! 	all these friends are my witnesses ,  so I swear to you ,  I swear by your beautiful eyes ,  in which I see myself reflected— Did you hear that ! 
In both my eyes he doubly sees himself— In each eye ,  one . 	he sees himself in my two eyes ,  so there’s two of him . 
swear by your double self ,  And there’s an oath of credit ! 	he should swear by his two - faced self ,  and that’s an oath I’ll believe ! 
nay ,  but hear me . 	no ,  just listen to me . 
pardon this fault ,  and by my soul I swear I never more will break an oath with thee . 	If you forgive my mistake ,  I swear I’ll never break an oath with you again . 
I once did lend my body for his wealth ,  Which but for him that had your husband’s ring Had quite miscarried . 	I lent my body once to make him rich . 
by heaven ,  it is the same I gave the doctor ! 	my God ,  it’s the same one I gave the judge ! 
I had it of him . 	I got it from him . 
what ,  are we cuckolds ere we have deserved it ? 	what ,  did you cheat on us before we deserved it ? 
speak not so grossly . —You are all amazed . 	don’t be crass . —You all look confused . 
I am dumb . 	I’m speechless . 
ay ,  but the clerk that never means to do it Unless he live until he be a man . 	yes ,  but the clerk will never do it ,  unless he grows up to be a man . 
sweet lady ,  you have given me life and living . 	madam ,  you’ve given me life and given me a living too . 
how like you the young German ,  the Duke of Saxony’s nephew ? 	how did you like the young German ,  the duke of Saxony’s nephew ? 
very vilely in the morning ,  when he is sober ,  and most vilely in the afternoon ,  when he is drunk . 	he’s pretty awful in the morning when he’s sobering up ,  and even worse in the afternoon when he’s drunk . 
when he is best he is a little worse than a man ,  and when he is worst he is little better than a beast . 	at his best he’s a little less than a man ,  and at his worst he’s little more than an animal . 
I will do any thing ,  Nerissa ,  ere I’ll be married to a sponge . 	I’ll do anything rather than marry a drunk ,  Nerissa . 
you need not fear ,  lady ,  the having any of these lords . 	you don’t have to worry about any of these lords ,  my lady . 
and I pray God grant them a fair departure . 	I wish them all safe trips home . 
do you not remember ,  lady ,  in your father’s time a Venetian ,  a scholar and a soldier ,  that came hither in company of the Marquess of Montferrat ? 	do you remember a Venetian scholar and soldier who accompanied the marquess of Montferrat here once when your father was still alive ? 
how now ,  Lorenzo ? 	how are you ,  Lorenzo ? 
my clerk hath some good comforts too for you . 	my clerk has some comforting news for you ,  too . 
ay ,  and I’ll give them him without a fee . 	yes ,  and I’ll give it to him for free . 
fair ladies ,  you drop manna in the way Of starvèd people . 	ladies ,  you’re dropping bread from the heavens to starving people . 
It is almost morning ,  And yet I am sure you are not satisfied Of these events at full . 	It’s almost morning ,  but I’m sure you’re not fully satisfied about what happened . 
let us go in ,  And charge us there upon interr'gatories ,  And we will answer all things faithfully . 	let’s go inside and we’ll answer all your questions truthfully . 
let it be so . 	all right ,  then . 
the first interr'gatory That my Nerissa shall be sworn on is Whether till the next night she had rather stay ,  Or go to bed now ,  being two hours to day . 	my first question for Nerissa is whether she’d rather wait till tomorrow night or go to bed now ,  since there are only two more hours till morning . 
but were the day come ,  I should wish it dark ,  That I were couching with the doctor’s clerk . 	when the day comes ,  I’ll wish it were nighttime ,  so I could sleep with the legal expert’s clerk . 
true ,  madam . 	yes ,  madam ,  that’s the one . 
he ,  of all the men that ever my foolish eyes looked upon ,  was the best deserving a fair lady . 	he deserves a beautiful wife more than all the other men I’ve ever seen . 
I remember him well ,  and I remember him worthy of thy praise . 	I remember him well ,  and my memory tells me that he deserves your praise . 
how now ,  what news ? 	hello ,  do you have any news ? 
the four strangers seek for you ,  madam ,  to take their leave . 	the four suitors are looking for you so they can say goodbye ,  madam . 
and there is a forerunner come from a fifth ,  the Prince of Morocco ,  who brings word the prince his master will be here tonight . 	and there’s a messenger representing a fifth one ,  the prince of Morocco ,  who says the prince will be here tonight . 
If I could bid the fifth welcome with so good a heart as I can bid the other four farewell ,  I should be glad of his approach . 	If I could say hello to the fifth one as happily as I’ll say goodbye to the first four ,  I’d be very happy he’s coming . 
If he have the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil ,  I had rather he should shrive me than wive me . 	If he’s as good as a saint but is black like a devil ,  I’d rather he hear my confession than marry me . 
come ,  Nerissa . —	let’s go ,  Nerissa . —
three thousand ducats ,  well . 	three thousand ducats ,  hmmm . 
ay ,  sir ,  for three months . 	yes ,  for three months . 
for three months ,  well . 	for three months ,  hmmm . 
for the which ,  as I told you ,  Antonio shall be bound . 	as I said before ,  Antonio will guarantee the loan . 
antonio shall become bound ,  well . 	If I default ,  he’ll pay you . 
may you stead me ? 	antonio will guarantee it ,  hmmm . 
will you pleasure me ? 	can you help me ? 
shall I know your answer ? 	what’s your answer ? 
three thousand ducats for three months ,  and Antonio bound . 	three thousand ducats for three months ,  and Antonio will guarantee it . 
your answer to that ? 	your answer ? 
antonio is a good man . 	antonio’s a good man . 
have you heard any imputation to the contrary ? 	have you heard anything to the contrary ? 
yet his means are in supposition . 	but his investments are uncertain right now . 
he hath an argosy bound to Tripolis ,  another to the Indies . 	he has one ship bound for Tripoli ,  another heading for the Indies . 
I understand moreover ,  upon the Rialto ,  he hath a third at Mexico ,  a fourth for England ,  and other ventures he hath squandered abroad . 	what’s more ,  people at the
but ships are but boards ,  sailors but men . 	but ships are just fragile boards ,  and sailors are just men . 
there be land rats and water rats ,  water thieves and land thieves—I mean pirates—and then there is the peril of waters ,  winds ,  and rocks . 	there are rats and thieves and pirates—not to mention storms ,  winds ,  and rocks . 
the man is notwithstanding sufficient . 	but in spite of all this ,  the man is still wealthy enough . 
be assured you may . 	I assure you he can . 
this is Signor Antonio . 	oh yes—to smell  This is Signor Antonio . 
In sooth ,  I know not why I am so sad . 	to be honest ,  I don’t know why I’m so sad . 
It wearies me; you say it wearies you . 	I’m tired of it ,  and you say you’re tired of it too . 
believe me ,  sir ,  had I such venture forth ,  The better part of my affections would Be with my hopes abroad . 	I’d be peering over maps to figure out the best ports ,  piers ,  and waterways . 
and every object that might make me fear Misfortune to my ventures out of doubt Would make me sad . 	everything that made me worry about my ships would make me sad . 
shylock ,  do you hear ? 	shylock ,  are you listening ? 
I am debating of my present store ,  And by the near guess of my memory I cannot instantly raise up the gross Of full three thousand ducats . 	If I remember correctly ,  I can’t raise the entire three thousand ducats immediately . 
what of that ? 	but so what ? 
tubal ,  a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe ,  Will furnish me . 	tubal ,  a wealthy Jew I know ,  will supply me with the cash . 
but soft ! 	but wait a minute ! 
how many months Do you desire ? 	how many months do you want ? 
shylock ,  albeit I neither lend nor borrow By taking nor by giving of excess ,  Yet to supply the ripe wants of my friend ,  I’ll break a custom . 	shylock ,  although I never lend or borrow with interest ,  I’m willing to break that habit to help a friend in need . 
ay ,  ay ,  three thousand ducats . 	oh yes ,  three thousand ducats . 
and for three months . 	for three months . 
I had forgot—three months . 	yes ,  I forgot—three months . 
you told me so . 	that’s right . 
I do never use it . 	that’s not how I do business . 
when Jacob grazed his uncle Laban’s sheep— This Jacob from our holy Abram was ,  As his wise mother wrought in his behalf ,  The third possessor ,  ay ,  he was the third— And what of him ? 	when Jacob took care of his uncle Laban’s sheep—Jacob was the heir to his grandfather Abraham’s birthright ,  because his mother cleverly arranged for her husband Isaac to make Jacob his heir— What’s your point ? 
did he take interest ? 	did he charge interest ? 
this was a venture ,  sir ,  that Jacob served for— A thing not in his power to bring to pass But swayed and fashioned by the hand of heaven . 	jacob didn’t have any control over what happened . 
or is your gold and silver ewes and rams ? 	that your interest payments are like Jacob’s sheep ? 
but note me ,  signor—	but listen to me ,  signor—
an evil soul producing holy witness Is like a villain with a smiling cheek ,  A goodly apple rotten at the heart . 	an evil soul using a holy story is like a criminal who smiles at you . 
oh ,  what a goodly outside falsehood hath ! 	oh ,  liars can look so honest ! 
three months from twelve ,  then . 	three months from twelve months of the year . 
let me see . 	let me see . 
the rate— Well ,  Shylock ,  shall we be beholding to you ? 	the interest rate will be— Well ,  Shylock ? 
signor Antonio ,  many a time and oft In the Rialto you have rated me About my moneys and my usances . 	signor Antonio ,  you’ve often insulted my money and my business practices in the Rialto . 
you call me misbeliever ,  cutthroat dog ,  And spet upon my Jewish gaberdine— And all for use of that which is mine own . 	and all because I use my own money to make a profit . 
well then ,  it now appears you need my help . 	and now it looks like you need my help . 
go to ,  then ! 	all right then . 
you come to me and you say ,   “ Shylock ,  we would have moneys .  ”  You say so ! — You ,  that did void your rheum upon my beard And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur Over your threshold ! 	you come to me saying ,   “ Shylock ,  we need money .  ”  You say that ! —even though you spat on my beard and kicked me like you’d kick a stray mutt out your front door . 
moneys is your suit . 	and now you’re asking for money . 
what should I say to you ? 	what can I tell you ? 
should I not say ,   “ Hath a dog money ? 	shouldn’t I say ,   “ Does a dog have money ? 
Is it possible A cur can lend three thousand ducats ?  ”  Or Shall I bend low and in a bondman’s key With bated breath and whispering humbleness Say this:	Is it possible for a mutt to lend three thousand ducats ?  ”  Or should I bend down low ,  and in a humble and submissive voice say:
If thou wilt lend this money ,  lend it not As to thy friends ,  for when did friendship take A breed for barren metal of his friend ? 	If you’re going to lend us this money ,  don’t lend it to us as if we were your friends . 
but lend it rather to thine enemy ,  Who ,  if he break ,  thou mayst with better face Exact the penalty . 	Instead ,  lend it to me as your enemy . 
why ,  look you how you storm ! 	look at you getting all riled up ! 
I would be friends with you and have your love ,  Forget the shames that you have stained me with ,  Supply your present wants and take no doit Of usance for my moneys—and you’ll not hear me ! 	I want to be friends with you ,  and forget all the times you’ve embarrassed and humiliated me . 
this is kind I offer . 	I’m making a kind offer—zero percent financing . 
this were kindness . 	that really would be kind . 
this kindness will I show . 	I’ll show you how kind I am . 
go with me to a notary ,  seal me there Your single bond ,  and—in a merry sport— If you repay me not on such a day ,  In such a place ,  such sum or sums as are Expressed in the condition ,  let the forfeit Be nominated for an equal pound Of your fair flesh ,  to be cut off and taken In what part of your body pleaseth me . 	If you don’t repay me on the day we agree on ,  in the place we name ,  for the sum of money fixed in our contract ,  your penalty will be a pound of your pretty flesh ,  to be cut off and taken out of whatever part of your body I like . 
content ,  in faith . 	It’s a deal . 
I’ll seal to such a bond ,  And say there is much kindness in the Jew . 	I’ll agree to those terms and even say that Jews are nice . 
you shall not seal to such a bond for me ! 	no ,  you can’t sign a contract like that for me ! 
I’ll rather dwell in my necessity . 	I’d rather go without the money . 
within these two months—that’s a month before This bond expires—I do expect return Of thrice three times the value of this bond . 	In two months—a month before this loan is due—I expect to earn more than three times that much from my investments . 
a pound of man’s flesh taken from a man Is not so estimable ,  profitable neither ,  As flesh of muttons ,  beefs ,  or goats . 	a pound of human flesh taken isn’t even as valuable as a pound of mutton or beef . 
If he will take it ,  so . 	If he agrees ,  great . 
If not ,  adieu . 	If not ,  goodbye . 
and for my love I pray you wrong me not . 	and I hope you won’t think badly of me . 
yes ,  Shylock ,  I will seal unto this bond . 	yes ,  Shylock ,  I’ll sign the contract and agree to its terms . 
then meet me forthwith at the notary’s . 	then meet me right away at the notary’s . 
give him direction for this merry bond ,  And I will go and purse the ducats straight ,  See to my house left in the fearful guard Of an unthrifty knave ,  and presently I will be with you . 	give him the instructions for our amusing little contract ,  and I’ll go get the money for you right away . 
hie thee ,  gentle Jew . 	hurry up ,  my Jewish friend . 
my ships come home a month before the day . 	my ships will come home a month before the money is due . 
I would not change this hue Except to steal your thoughts ,  my gentle queen . 	I wouldn’t change it except to make you think of me ,  my darling queen . 
even for that I thank you . 	thank you for saying that . 
therefore I pray you lead me to the caskets To try my fortune . 	show me the caskets and let me try my luck . 
by this scimitar That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince That won three fields of Sultan Solyman ,  I would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look ,  Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth ,  Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she - bear ,  Yea ,  mock the lion when he roars for prey ,  To win the lady . 	I swear by my sword ,  which killed the Shah of Persia and a Persian prince and defeated the Sultan Suleiman three times ,  that I would face the meanest - looking warriors on earth . 
but ,  alas the while ! 	but this is bad ! 
nor will not . 	think about it carefully . 
come ,  bring me unto my chance . 	let me take my chances . 
first ,  forward to the temple . 	let’s go to the temple first . 
after dinner Your hazard shall be made . 	you can take your chances after dinner . 
certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew ,  my master . 	I’m sure I’ll feel guilty if I run away from this Jew ,  my master . 
for the heavens ,  rouse up a brave mind ,  ”  says the fiend ,   “ and run .  ”  Well ,  my conscience ,  hanging about the neck of my heart ,  says very wisely to me ,   “ My honest friend Launcelot ,  being an honest man’s son ” —or rather an honest woman’s son ,  for indeed my father did something smack ,  something grow to . 	be tough ,  ”  says the devil ,   “ and run !  ”  But then my conscience ,  hanging around my heart ,  says very wisely to me ,   “ My good friend Launcelot ,  you’re a good boy ,  the son of an honest man ,  ”  really ,  that should be the son of an honest woman ,  since my father cheated on my mother . 
he had a kind of taste . —Well ,  my conscience says ,   “ Launcelot ,  budge not .  ”   “ Budge !  ”  says the fiend . 	anyway ,  my conscience says ,   “ Stay put .  ”   “ Go ,  ”  the devil says . 
budge not ,  ”  says my conscience . 	don’t go ,  ”  says my conscience . 
conscience ,  ”  say I ,   “ you counsel well .  ”   “ Fiend ,  ”  say I ,   “ you counsel well .  ”  To be ruled by my conscience I should stay with the Jew my master ,  who ,  God bless the mark ,  is a kind of devil . 	conscience ,  ”  I say ,   “ you give good advice .  ”   “ Devil ,  ”  I say ,   “ you give good advice .  ”  If I listened to my conscience ,  I’d stay with the Jew my master ,  who’s a devil . 
and to run away from the Jew I should be ruled by the fiend ,  who ,  saving your reverence ,  is the devil himself . 	but if I ran away from the Jew ,  I’d be following the advice of the devil ,  who’s the very devil himself . 
the fiend gives the more friendly counsel . 	the devil’s advice is nicer . 
I will run ,  fiend . 	I’ll run ,  devil . 
I will run . 	tell me to run ,  and I’ll run . 
master young man ,  you ,  I pray you ,  which is the way to Master Jew’s ? 	excuse me ,  young man ,  how do I get to the Jew’s residence ? 
master young gentleman ,  I pray you ,  which is the way to Master Jew’s ? 	young man ,  excuse me ,  how do I get to the Jew’s ? 
turn up on your right hand at the next turning ,  but at the next turning of all on your left . 	turn right at the next turn ,  but at the following turn ,  turn left . 
marry ,  at the very next turning turn of no hand ,  but turn down indirectly to the Jew’s house . 	oh ,  and then at the very next turn ,  don’t turn left or right ,  but turn down and around to the Jew’s house . 
by God’s sonties ,  ’twill be a hard way to hit . 	good heavens ,  those are difficult directions . 
can you tell me whether one Launcelot that dwells with him ,  dwell with him or no ? 	can you tell me if a man named Launcelot ,  who lives with him ,  is still there ? 
talk you of young Master Launcelot ? 	are you talking about young Master Launcelot ? 
no  “ master ,  ”  sir ,  but a poor man’s son . 	he’s not a  “ master ,  ”  sir ,  he’s just a poor man’s son . 
his father ,  though I say ’t ,  is an honest exceeding poor man and ,  God be thanked ,  well to live . 	his father ,  if I do say so myself ,  is an honest but very poor man ,  and ,  thank God ,  likely to live a long time . 
your worship’s friend and Launcelot ,  sir . 	he’s just Launcelot . 
shall I have the thought To think on this ,  and shall I lack the thought That such a thing bechanced would make me sad ? 	who wouldn’t get sad thinking about things like that ? 
but tell not me . 	It’s obvious . 
believe me ,  no . 	no ,  that’s not it ,  trust me . 
therefore my merchandise makes me not sad . 	so it’s not my business that’s making me sad . 
why then ,  you are in love . 	well then ,  you must be in love . 
not in love neither ? 	you’re not in love either ? 
but I pray you ,  ergo ,  old man ,  ergo ,  I beseech you ,  talk you of young Master Launcelot ? 	but excuse me ,   Yes ,  I’m talking about Launcelot ,  sir . 
ergo ,  Master Launcelot . 	oh ,  no . 
marry ,  God forbid ! 	god forbid ! 
the boy was the very staff of my age ,  my very prop . 	the boy was going to support me in my old age ! 
do I look like a cudgel or a hovel - post ,  a staff or a prop ? 	what am I ,  a cane ? 
do you know me ,  Father ? 	don’t you recognize me ,  father ? 
alack the day ,  I know you not ,  young gentleman . 	heaven help me ,  I don’t know you ,  sir . 
but I pray you ,  tell me ,  is my boy ,  God rest his soul ,  alive or dead ? 	but please tell me ,  is my boy—God rest his soul—alive or dead ? 
do you not know me ,  Father ? 	you really don’t recognize me ,  father ? 
alack ,  sir ,  I am sand - blind . 	sir ,  I’m half - blind . 
I know you not . 	I don’t know you . 
nay ,  indeed if you had your eyes ,  you might fail of the knowing me . 	even if you had your eyes ,  you still might not recognize me . 
It is a wise father that knows his own child . 	It takes a wise father to know his own child . 
well ,  old man ,  I will tell you news of your son . 	well ,  old man ,  I’ll tell you news of your son . 
give me your blessing . 	give me your blessing . 
pray you ,  sir ,  stand up . 	please stand up ! 
I am sure you are not Launcelot ,  my boy . 	I’m sure you aren’t Launcelot ,  my boy . 
pray you ,  let’s have no more fooling about it ,  but give me your blessing . 	give me your blessing . 
I am Launcelot ,  your boy that was ,  your son that is ,  your child that shall be . 	I’m Launcelot ,  who was your boy ,  is your son ,  and will be your child . 
I cannot think you are my son . 	I can’t believe you’re my son . 
her name is Margery ,  indeed . 	yes ,  you’re right ,  her name is Margery . 
I’ll be sworn ,  if thou be Launcelot ,  thou art mine own flesh and blood . 	If you’re Launcelot ,  then you’re my own flesh and blood . 
It should seem then that Dobbin’s tail grows backward . 	then Dobbin’s tail must be growing backward . 
I am sure he had more hair of his tail than I have of my face when I last saw him . 	I’m sure he had more hair on his tail than I have on my face when I last saw him . 
lord ,  how art thou changed ! 	lord ,  how you’ve changed ! 
how dost thou and thy master agree ? 	how are you and your master getting along ? 
I have brought him a present . 	I’ve brought him a present . 
how 'gree you now ? 	how are you ? 
my master’s a very Jew . 	my master’s a total Jew . 
give him a present . 	you’re giving him a present ? 
give him a halter . 	give him a noose to hang himself . 
I am famished in his service . 	he’s starving me to death . 
you may tell every finger I have with my ribs . 	you can see my ribs so well you can count them . 
father ,  I am glad you are come . 	I’m glad you’ve come ,  father . 
give me your present to one Master Bassanio ,  who indeed gives rare new liveries . 	give me your present to give to Master Bassanio . 
gramercy ! 	thank you . 
wouldst thou aught with me ? 	what do you want with me ? 
what would you ? 	what do you want ? 
serve you ,  sir . 	to work for you ,  sir . 
that is the very defect of the matter ,  sir . 	that’s what we’re trying to say ,  sir . 
I know thee well . 	I know who you are . 
thou hast obtained thy suit . 	you can have what you want . 
father ,  in . 	father ,  go ahead . 
my best endeavours shall be done herein . 	bASSANIO Please ,  Leonardo ,  think about this  I’ll do my best . 
yonder ,  sir ,  he walks . 	he’s walking over there ,  sir . 
signor Bassanio ! 	signor Bassanio ! 
gratiano ! 	gratiano ! 
I have a suit to you . 	I have a favor to ask . 
you have obtained it . 	anything . 
you must not deny me . 	don’t say no . 
I must go with you to Belmont . 	let me go with you to Belmont . 
why ,  then you must . 	well ,  if you have to go ,  you have to go . 
but hear thee ,  Gratiano . 	but listen to me ,  Gratiano . 
thou art too wild ,  too rude and bold of voice— Parts that become thee happily enough And in such eyes as ours appear not faults . 	sometimes you get a bit too wild ,  and you let your voice get a bit loud and rude . 
pray thee ,  take pain To allay with some cold drops of modesty Thy skipping spirit ,  lest through thy wild behavior I be misconst’red in the place I go to ,  And lose my hopes . 	please ,  try to act a little more serious ,  or the people in Belmont will get the wrong impression about me ,  and your wildness will make me blow my chance with Portia . 
signor Bassanio ,  hear me . 	listen ,  Signor Bassanio ,  there’s nothing to worry about . 
If I do not put on a sober habit ,  Talk with respect and swear but now and then ,  Wear prayer books in my pocket ,  look demurely— Nay more . 	I’ll carry prayer books in my pocket and look sweet—even more . 
while grace is saying ,  hood mine eyes Thus with my hat ,  and sigh and say ,   “ Amen ” — Use all the observance of civility Like one well studied in a sad ostent To please his grandam ,  never trust me more . 	If I don’t do all this ,  never trust me again . 
well ,  we shall see your bearing . 	well ,  we’ll see how you act . 
nay ,  but I bar tonight . 	okay ,  but tonight doesn’t count . 
you shall not gauge me By what we do tonight . 	you can’t judge me based on what I do tonight . 
I would entreat you rather to put on Your boldest suit of mirth ,  for we have friends That purpose merriment . 	I’d rather see you having fun ,  because we have friends coming who want to have fun . 
but fare you well . 	anyway ,  I have to say goodbye to you now . 
I have some business . 	I’ve got some business to take care of . 
I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so . 	I’m sorry you’re leaving my father like this . 
our house is hell ,  and thou ,  a merry devil ,  Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness . 	It’s hell in our house ,  and you helped cheer it up ,  like a funny devil . 
and Launcelot ,  soon at supper shalt thou see Lorenzo ,  who is thy new master’s guest . 	you’ll soon be meeting Lorenzo at supper; he’ll be a guest of your new master . 
give him this letter . 	give him this letter . 
adieu ! 	goodbye . 
If a Christian do not play the knave and get thee ,  I am much deceived . 	I’m sure some Christian will resort to trickery to get you . 
but adieu . 	but goodbye . 
these foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit . 	It’s not manly to cry . 
adieu . 	goodbye . 
farewell ,  good Launcelot . 	goodbye ,  Launcelot . 
alack ,  what heinous sin is it in me To be ashamed to be my father’s child ! 	oh God ,  what a heinous sinner I am ,  being ashamed to be my father’s child ! 
but though I am a daughter to his blood ,  I am not to his manners . 	but I need to remember I’m related to him by blood ,  not behavior . 
o Lorenzo ,  If thou keep promise ,  I shall end this strife ,  Become a Christian and thy loving wife . 	oh Lorenzo ,  if you keep your promise to me ,  I’ll end this agony by becoming a Christian and marrying you . 
nay ,  we will slink away in supper time ,  Disguise us at my lodging ,  and return ,  All in an hour . 	no ,  we’ll sneak away at supper time ,  disguise ourselves with masks at my house ,  and come back in an hour . 
we have not made good preparation . 	but we haven’t made any preparations . 
we have not spoke us yet of torchbearers . 	we haven’t even talked about who’ll be our torchbearers . 
tis vile ,  unless it may be quaintly ordered ,  And better in my mind not undertook . 	I think it’s better to call it off . 
tis now but four o'clock . 	It’s only four o'clock now . 
we have two hours To furnish us . 	we have two hours to get ready . 
friend Launcelot ,  what’s the news ? 	launcelot ,  what’s going on ? 
I know the hand . 	I recognize the handwriting . 
love news ,  in faith ? 	I bet it’s a love letter ! 
whither goest thou ? 	where are you going ? 
marry ,  sir ,  to bid my old master the Jew to sup tonight with my new master the Christian . 	to invite my former boss ,  the Jew ,  to dine tonight with my new master ,  the Christian . 
and so will I . 	me too . 
meet me and Gratiano At Gratiano’s lodging some hour hence . 	meet me and Gratiano at his house in about an hour . 
tis good we do so . 	It’s good we’re doing this . 
was not that letter from fair Jessica ? 	wasn’t that letter from Jessica ? 
some that will evermore peep through their eyes And laugh like parrots at a bagpiper ,  And other of such vinegar aspect That they’ll not show their teeth in way of smile Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable . 	some people will laugh at anything ,  and others are so grouchy they won’t even crack a smile when they hear something hysterically funny . 
fare ye well . 	goodbye ,  then . 
your worth is very dear in my regard . 	you’re both very precious to me . 
I take it your own business calls on you And you embrace th' occasion to depart . 	you need to leave to take care of your own business . 
good signors both ,  when shall we laugh ? 	we’re available . 
my Lord Bassanio ,  since you have found Antonio ,  We two will leave you . 	bassanio ,  we’ll say goodbye for now ,  since you’ve found Antonio . 
I will not fail you . 	don’t worry ,  I’ll be there . 
I must needs tell thee all . 	I have to tell you everything . 
who bids thee call ? 	who asked you to call her ? 
I do not bid thee call . 	I’m not asking you to call her . 
your worship was wont to tell me that I could do nothing without bidding . 	you always loved to tell me I couldn’t do anything without being told . 
call you ? 	did you call me ? 
what is your will ? 	do you need something ? 
I am bid forth to supper ,  Jessica . 	I’ve been invited to supper ,  Jessica . 
there are my keys . —But wherefore should I go ? 	here are my keys . —But why should I go ? 
I am not bid for love . 	I wasn’t invited because they like me . 
they flatter me . 	they’re just flattering me . 
but yet I’ll go in hate to feed upon The prodigal Christian . —Jessica ,  my girl ,  Look to my house . 	but I’ll go out of spite ,  to feed off the wasteful Christian . —Jessica ,  my girl ,  watch the house . 
I am right loath to go . 	I don’t feel like going . 
there is some ill a - brewing towards my rest ,  For I did dream of money bags tonight . 	I know because I dreamed of money bags last night . 
I beseech you ,  sir ,  go . 	please go ,  sir . 
my young master doth expect your reproach . 	my new master is expecting your approach . 
so do I his . 	and I’m expecting his reproach . 
and they have conspired together . 	and they’ve been plotting things together . 
I will not say you shall see a masque ,  but if you do then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a - bleeding on Black Monday last at six o'clock i' th' morning falling out that year on Ash Wednesday was four year in th' afternoon . 	I knew there would be a masquerade when I got that bad omen of a bloody nose last Easter Monday ,  at six in the morning ,  four years after I got the same kind of bloody nose on Ash Wednesday ,  in the afternoon . 
what ,  are there masques ? 	what ,  there’s going to be a masquerade ? 
but stop my house’s ears—I mean my casements— Let not the sound of shallow foppery enter My sober house . 	don’t stick your head out into the public street to stare at the Christian fools with painted faces . 
by Jacob’s staff ,  I swear ,  I have no mind of feasting forth tonight . 	block up my house’s ears—I mean the windows . 
I will go before ,  sir . — Mistress ,  look out at window ,  for all this . 	I’ll go ahead of you ,  sir . 
what says that fool of Hagar’s offspring ,  ha ? 	what did that gentile fool say to you ,  hmmm ? 
his words were ,   “ Farewell ,  mistress .  ”  Nothing else . 	he said  “ Goodbye ,  madam ,  ”  and nothing else . 
the patch is kind enough ,  but a huge feeder ,  Snail - slow in profit ,  and he sleeps by day More than the wildcat . 	the fool’s nice enough ,  but he’s such a huge eater ,  and slow as a snail when he works . 
drones hive not with me . 	he sleeps all day like a cat . 
well ,  Jessica ,  go in . 	anyway ,  Jessica ,  go inside . 
perhaps I will return immediately . 	I might come back soon . 
do as I bid you . 	do as I told you . 
shut doors after you . 	shut the doors after you . 
fast bind ,  fast find . 	goodbye . 
farewell ,  and if my fortune be not crost ,  I have a father ,  you a daughter ,  lost . 	If luck’s with me ,  I’ll lose a father ,  and you’ll lose a daughter . 
this is the penthouse under which Lorenzo Desired us to make stand . 	this is the roof under which Lorenzo said to meet him . 
his hour is almost past . 	he’s late . 
and it is marvel he outdwells his hour ,  For lovers ever run before the clock . 	yes ,  and that’s surprising ,  because lovers are usually early . 
oh ,  ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly To seal love’s bonds new made than they are wont To keep obligèd faith unforfeited . 	yes ,  for new lovers time passes ten times faster than for couples who’ve been married forever . 
that ever holds . 	that’s always true . 
who riseth from a feast With that keen appetite that he sits down ? 	who gets up from a meal with the same appetite he had when he sat down ? 
where is the horse that doth untread again His tedious measures with the unbated fire That he did pace them first ? 	can any horse retrace his footsteps with the same energy he had when he walked them the first time ? 
all things that are ,  Are with more spirit chasèd than enjoyed . 	we chase everything in life more excitedly than we actually enjoy it when we get it . 
here comes Lorenzo . 	here comes Lorenzo . 
more of this hereafter . 	we’ll talk about this later . 
sweet friends ,  your patience for my long abode . 	my dear friends ,  thanks for your patience . 
not I but my affairs have made you wait . 	I had business that made me late . 
when you shall please to play the thieves for wives ,  I’ll watch as long for you then . 	when you have to steal your own wives some day ,  I’ll wait for you just as long . 
approach . 	come over here . 
who’s within ? 	who’s in there ? 
who are you ? 	who are you ? 
tell me for more certainty ,  Albeit I’ll swear that I do know your tongue . 	tell me so I can be sure ,  though I swear I recognize your voice . 
lorenzo ,  and thy love . 	I’m Lorenzo ,  your love . 
lorenzo certain ,  and my love indeed— For who love I so much ? 	lorenzo ,  that’s for sure ,  and I’m also sure you’re my love—who else do I love so much ? 
and now who knows But you ,  Lorenzo ,  whether I am yours ? 	and now who but you knows whether I’m yours ? 
heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art . 	as God is my witness ,  you know you’re mine . 
here ,  catch this casket . 	here ,  catch this box . 
It is worth the pains . 	It’ll be worth your while . 
descend ,  for you must be my torchbearer . 	you have to be my torchbearer for the masquerade . 
what ,  must I hold a candle to my shames ? 	what ,  I have to hold a candle up so people can see what I’m doing ? 
I will make fast the doors and gild myself With some more ducats ,  and be with you straight . 	I’ll lock up the doors ,  grab some more ducats ,  and be with you right away . 
now ,  by my hood ,  a gentle and no Jew . 	my God ,  she can’t be a Jew ,  she’s too nice ! 
beshrew me but I love her heartily . 	god ,  I’m crazy about her . 
for she is wise ,  if I can judge of her . 	she’s wise ,  if I’m judging her right . 
and fair she is ,  if that mine eyes be true . 	she’s beautiful ,  if my eyes can see . 
and true she is ,  as she hath proved herself . 	and she’s loyal ,  as she has proven . 
and therefore ,  like herself—wise ,  fair and true— Shall she be placèd in my constant soul . 	and as long as she’s herself—wise ,  beautiful ,  and faithful—she’ll always have a place in my heart . 
what ,  art thou come ? —On ,  gentlemen ,  away ! 	ah ,  you’re here ? —Come on ,  gentlemen ,  let’s go ! 
our masquing mates by this time for us stay . 	our masquerade mates are waiting for us . 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
signor Antonio ? 	signor Antonio ? 
tis nine o'clock . 	It’s nine o'clock ! 
our friends all stay for you . 	our friends are all waiting for you . 
no masque tonight . 	there’s no masquerade tonight . 
I have sent twenty out to seek for you . 	I’ve sent twenty people to look for you . 
I am glad on ’t . 	I’m glad . 
I desire no more delight Than to be under sail and gone tonight . 	I want to head out tonight . 
the one of them contains my picture ,  Prince . 	one of them contains my picture . 
If you choose that ,  then I am yours withal . 	If you choose that one ,  I’m yours ,  along with the picture . 
some god direct my judgment ! 	I wish some god could help me choose ! 
let me see . 	let me see . 
I will survey th' inscriptions back again . 	I’ll look over the inscriptions again . 
what says this leaden casket ? 	what does the lead box say ? 
who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath .  ”  Must give—for what ? 	he who chooses me must give and risk all he has .  ”  Must give everything—for what ? 
for lead ? 	for lead ? 
hazard for lead ? 	risk everything for lead ? 
this casket threatens . 	this box is too threatening . 
men that hazard all Do it in hope of fair advantages . 	men who risk everything hope to make profits . 
a golden mind stoops not to shows of dross . 	a golden mind doesn’t bend down to choose something worthless . 
I’ll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead . 	so I won’t give or risk anything for lead . 
what says the silver with her virgin hue ? 	what does the silver one say ? 
who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves .  ”   “ As much as he deserves !  ” —pause there ,  Morocco ,  And weigh thy value with an even hand . 	he who chooses me will get as much as he deserves .  ”  As much as he deserves—wait a minute there ,  Morocco ,  and consider your own value with a level head . 
what if I strayed no further ,  but chose here ? 	what if I went no further and chose this one ? 
let’s see once more this saying graved in gold ,   “ Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire .  ”  Why ,  that’s the lady . 	but let’s see once more what the gold one says:  “ He who chooses me will get what many men want .  ”  That’s Portia ! 
all the world desires her . 	the whole world wants her . 
from the four corners of the earth they come To kiss this shrine ,  this mortal breathing saint . 	they come from the four corners of the earth to kiss this shrine and see this living ,  breathing saint . 
the Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds Of wide Arabia are as thoroughfares now For princes to come view fair Portia . 	princes travel across deserts and the vast wilderness of Arabia to come see the beautiful Portia . 
the watery kingdom ,  whose ambitious head Spits in the face of heaven ,  is no bar To stop the foreign spirits ,  but they come As o'er a brook to see fair Portia . 	the wide ocean doesn’t prevent them from coming to see her—they travel across it as if it were a little stream . 
one of these three contains her heavenly picture . 	one of these three boxes contains her lovely picture . 
Is ’t like that lead contains her ? 	could the lead one contain it ? 
twere damnation To think so base a thought . 	no ,  it’d be a sin to think such a low thought . 
It were too gross To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave . 	lead’s too crass to hold her . 
or shall I think in silver she’s immured ,  Being ten times undervalued to tried gold ? 	Is she enclosed in silver ,  which is ten times less valuable than gold ? 
o sinful thought ! 	oh ,  what a sinful thought ! 
never so rich a gem Was set in worse than gold . 	nobody ever set a gem like her in a worse setting than gold . 
they have in England A coin that bears the figure of an angel Stamped in gold ,  but that’s insculped upon . 	they have a coin in England stamped with the figure of an angel ,  but that’s just engraved on the surface . 
you look not well ,  Signor Antonio . 	you don’t look well ,  Antonio . 
you have too much respect upon the world . 	people with too much invested in the world always get hurt . 
and let my liver rather heat with wine Than my heart cool with mortifying groans . 	I’d rather overload my liver with wine than starve my heart by denying myself fun . 
I’ll tell thee more of this another time . 	I’ll talk to you more about this some other time . 
but fish not with this melancholy bait For this fool gudgeon ,  this opinion . — Come ,  good Lorenzo . —Fare ye well awhile . 	I’m a fool . —Let’s go ,  Lorenzo . —Goodbye for now . 
I’ll end my exhortation after dinner . 	I’ll finish my lecture after dinner . 
lies all within . —Deliver me the key . 	here an angel’s lying in a golden bed . —Give me the key . 
here do I choose ,  and thrive I as I may ! 	I will choose this one and try my chances . 
there ,  take it ,  Prince . 	damn it ! 
o hell ,  what have we here ? 	what’s this ? 
a carrion death ,  within whose empty eye There is a written scroll . 	It’s a skull with a scroll in its empty eye socket . 
I’ll read the writing . 	I’ll read it aloud . 
all that glisters is not gold— Often have you heard that told . 	all that glitters is not gold— You’ve often heard that said . 
many a man his life hath sold But my outside to behold . 	many men have sold their souls Just to view my shiny surface . 
gilded tombs do worms enfold . 	but gilded tombs contain worms . 
had you been as wise as bold ,  Young in limbs ,  in judgment old ,  Your answer had not been inscrolled . 	If you’d been as wise as you were bold ,  With an old man’s mature judgment ,  You wouldn’t have had to read this scroll . 
portia ,  adieu . 	portia ,  goodbye to you . 
I have too grieved a heart To take a tedious leave . 	my heart’s too sad for long goodbyes . 
thus losers part . 	losers always leave quickly . 
a gentle riddance . —Draw the curtains ,  go . — Let all of his complexion choose me so . 	good riddance ! —Close the curtains and leave . —I hope everyone who looks like him will make the same choice . 
why ,  man ,  I saw Bassanio under sail . 	I saw Bassanio sail away ,  and Gratiano went with him . 
with him is Gratiano gone along . 	I’m sure Lorenzo isn’t on their ship . 
and in their ship I am sure Lorenzo is not . 	that wicked Jew got the duke to listen to his complaints . 
the villain Jew with outcries raised the Duke ,  Who went with him to search Bassanio’s ship . 	the duke went with him to search Bassanio’s ship . 
he came too late . 	he got there too late . 
the ship was under sail . 	the ship was already sailing . 
but there the Duke was given to understand That in a gondola were seen together Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica . 	but once he got there ,  the duke learned that Lorenzo and his lover Jessica were together in a gondola . 
besides ,  Antonio certified the Duke They were not with Bassanio in his ship . 	In any case ,  Antonio assured the duke they weren’t with Bassanio on his ship . 
I never heard a passion so confused ,  So strange ,  outrageous ,  and so variable ,  As the dog Jew did utter in the streets . 	I’ve never heard such confused emotions as what that Jew dog was shouting in the streets . 
o my daughter ,  Fled with a Christian ! 	ran off with a Christian ! 
o my Christian ducats ! 	oh my Christian ducats ! 
justice ,  find the girl ! 	justice ,  find the girl ! 
she hath the stones upon her ,  and the ducats .  ”  Why ,  all the boys in Venice follow him ,  Crying ,   “ His stones ,  his daughter ,  and his ducats !  ” 	she has the stones on her ,  and the ducats .  ”  I know ,  all the boys in Venice are following him ,  yelling ,   “ His stones ,  his daughter ,  and his ducats !  ” 
let good Antonio look he keep his day ,  Or he shall pay for this . 	I hope Antonio repays his loan on time ,  or he’ll suffer for this . 
marry ,  well remembered . 	that’s a good point . 
I reasoned with a Frenchman yesterday ,  Who told me ,  in the narrow seas that part The French and English ,  there miscarried A vessel of our country richly fraught . 	I spoke with a Frenchman yesterday who said that a Venetian ship loaded with treasure was wrecked in the English Channel . 
you were best to tell Antonio what you hear— Yet do not suddenly ,  for it may grieve him . 	you should tell Antonio what you hear—but don’t do it suddenly ,  because it might upset him . 
I saw Bassanio and Antonio part . 	I saw Bassanio and Antonio say goodbye . 
bassanio told him he would make some speed Of his return . 	bassanio told him he’d try to hurry back . 
and for the Jew’s bond which he hath of me ,  Let it not enter in your mind of love . 	as for the Jew’s contract ,  don’t let it be a factor in your plans . 
and so they parted . 	then he shook Bassanio’s hand affectionately—and they separated . 
I think he only loves the world for him . 	I think he only loves life because of Bassanio . 
I pray thee ,  let us go and find him out And quicken his embracèd heaviness With some delight or other . 	let’s go find him and cheer him up . 
do we so . 	yes ,  let’s do that . 
draw the curtain straight . 	hurry ,  hurry ,  close the curtain quick . 
the Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath And comes to his election presently . 	the prince of Arragon has taken his oath ,  and he’s coming to make his choice now . 
behold ,  there stand the caskets ,  noble Prince . 	look ,  here are the boxes ,  prince . 
If you choose that wherein I am contained ,  Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemnized . 	If you choose the one that contains my picture ,  we’ll be married right away . 
but if you fail ,  without more speech ,  my lord ,  You must be gone from hence immediately . 	but if you fail ,  you have to leave immediately . 
to these injunctions every one doth swear That comes to hazard for my worthless self . 	everyone who comes to gamble on winning me has to swear to these three rules . 
and so have I addressed me . 	okay ,  I’m ready . 
fortune now To my heart’s hope ! 	I hope luck will give me what my heart hopes for ! 
gold ,  silver ,  and base lead . 	gold ,  silver ,  and common lead . 
who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath .  ”  You shall look fairer ere I give or hazard . 	he who chooses me must give and risk all he has .  ”  You’d have to be more attractive for me to give or risk anything for you . 
what says the golden chest ? 	what does the golden box say ? 
ha ,  let me see . 	hmm ,  let me see:
now ,  fair Hippolyta ,  our nuptial hour Draws on apace; four happy days bring in Another moon; but ,  O ,  methinks ,  how slow This old moon wanes ! 	now ,  fair Hippolyta ,  the time for our wedding is very close; Just four more happy days until the new moon . 
four days will quickly steep themselves in night; Four nights will quickly dream away the time; And then the moon ,  like to a silver bow New - bent in heaven ,  shall behold the night Of our solemnities . 	four days will quickly dissolve into four nights; Four nights will quickly dream away the time; And then the moon ,  like a silver slice in the heavens ,  Will light the night of our wedding solemnities . 
go ,  Philostrate ,  Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments; Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth; Turn melancholy forth to funerals; The pale companion is not for our pomp . 	go ,  Philostrate ,  Stir up the young people of Athens to start swinging; Get the party spirit going; Turn sadness back to the funerals — No sadness at our parties . 
hippolyta ,  I woo'd thee with my sword ,  And won thy love doing thee injuries; But I will wed thee in another key ,  With pomp ,  with triumph ,  and with revelling . 	hippolyta ,  I got you by waging war with you ,  And made you love me by doing you injuries; But I will marry you in a different way ,  With pomp ,  with triumph ,  and with partying ! 
happy be Theseus ,  our renowned duke ! 	regards to Theseus ,  our renowned duke ! 
and ,  my gracious duke ,  Be it so she will not here before your Grace Consent to marry with Demetrius ,  I beg the ancient privilege of Athens: As she is mine ,  I may dispose of her; Which shall be either to this gentleman Or to her death ,  according to our law Immediately provided in that case . 	since she belongs to me ,  I may dispose of her ,  Which shall be either to this gentleman Or to her death ,  according to our law Which is fit to these circumstances . 
what say you ,  Hermia ? 	what do you say ,  Hermia ? 
be advis'd ,  fair maid . 	be careful ,  fair maid . 
to you your father should be as a god; One that composed your beauties; yea ,  and one To whom you are but as a form in wax ,  By him imprinted ,  and within his power To leave the figure ,  or disfigure it . 	to you your father should be as a god ,  A god that created your beauty ,  yes ,  and a god Who sees you as a piece of wax that he has imprinted ,  And it is within his power to leave the wax as it is ,  Or to disfigure it . 
demetrius is a worthy gentleman . 	demetrius is a worthy gentleman . 
so is Lysander . 	so is Lysander . 
In himself he is; But in this kind ,  wanting your father's voice ,  The other must be held the worthier . 	In any other case ,  he is . 
I would my father look'd but with my eyes . 	I wish my father could see with my eyes . 
rather your eyes must with his judgment look . 	no ,  you must see with your father’s eyes . 
I do entreat your Grace to pardon me . 	I beg your grace to pardon me . 
either to die the death ,  or to abjure For ever the society of men . 	either to die or to swear to avoid The society of men forever . 
therefore ,  fair Hermia ,  question your desires ,  Know of your youth ,  examine well your blood ,  Whether ,  if you yield not to your father's choice ,  You can endure the livery of a nun ,  For aye to be in shady cloister mew'd ,  To live a barren sister all your life ,  Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon . 	therefore ,  fair Hermia ,  think about what you’re doing ,  Think about how young you are ,  examine your choices well ,  Whether ,  if you don’t take your father's choice ,  You can endure life in a convent ,  To be shut up in a cloister ,  To live a childless nun all your life ,  Chanting faint hymns to the cold ,  fruitless moon . 
thrice - blessed they that master so their blood To undergo such maiden pilgrimage; But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd Than that which ,  withering on the virgin thorn Grows ,  lives ,  and dies ,  in single blessedness . 	those who can discipline themselves to undertake Such a heavenly path for piety are blessed three times; But those who are in a convent to avoid marriage Grow ,  live ,  and die ,  in single blessedness . 
so will I grow ,  so live ,  so die ,  my lord ,  Ere I will yield my virgin patent up Unto his lordship ,  whose unwished yoke My soul consents not to give sovereignty . 	well ,  that’s how I will grow ,  live ,  and die ,  my lord ,  Before I will give up my virginity To his lordship . 
take time to pause; and by the next new moon— The sealing - day betwixt my love and me For everlasting bond of fellowship , — Upon that day either prepare to die For disobedience to your father's will ,  Or else to wed Demetrius ,  as he would ,  Or on Diana's altar to protest For aye austerity and single life . 	take time to think about it; and ,  by the next new moon , — The wedding day of my love and me ,  For the everlasting bond of fellowship , — On that day either prepare to die Because you have disobeyed your father's will; Or else marry Demetrius ,  as your father wants you to; Or accept the austerity and single life of a nun . 
relent ,  sweet Hermia; and ,  Lysander ,  yield Thy crazed title to my certain right . 	give in ,  sweet Hermia;—and ,  Lysander ,  give up Your crazy claim to my future bride . 
scornful Lysander ! 	scornful Lysander ! 
true ,  he hath my love; And what is mine my love shall render him; And she is mine; and all my right of her I do estate unto Demetrius . 	yes ,  Demetrius has my approval; And everything I own I will leave to him; And she is mine; and all my rights concerning her ,  I leave to Demetrius . 
I am ,  my lord ,  as well derived as he ,  As well possess'd; my love is more than his; My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd ,  If not with vantage ,  as Demetrius'; And ,  which is more than all these boasts can be ,  I am belov'd of beauteous Hermia . 	I am ,  my lord ,  as well born as he is ,  As rich; my love is better than his; My fortunes ,  no matter which way you look at it ,  Are as good as Demetrius'; And ,  furthermore ,  which is more important than all these qualities ,  Hermia loves me too ! 
why should not I then prosecute my right ? 	why shouldn’t I pursue Hermia ? 
demetrius ,  I'll avouch it to his head ,  Made love to Nedar's daughter ,  Helena ,  And won her soul; and she ,  sweet lady ,  dotes ,  Devoutly dotes ,  dotes in idolatry ,  Upon this spotted and inconstant man . 	demetrius ,  I'll swear it on his head ,  Pursued Nedar's daughter ,  Helena ,  the same way ,  And won her soul; and she ,  sweet lady ,  loves ,  Devoutly loves ,  loves to the point of divine worship ,  This spotted and inconstant man . 
come ,  my Hippolyta; what cheer ,  my love ? 	are you okay ,  my love ? 
demetrius and Egeus ,  go along; I must employ you in some business Against our nuptial ,  and confer with you Of something nearly that concerns yourselves . 	demetrius and Egeus ,  go ahead; I must ask you to do a few things about the wedding ,  And meet with you about some issues that affect you . 
with duty and desire we follow you . 	we follow you ,  because we should and because we want to . 
how now ,  my love ! 	what’s the matter ,  my love ! 
why is your cheek so pale ? 	why do you look so pale ? 
how chance the roses there do fade so fast ? 	why do the roses in your cheeks fade so fast ? 
ay me ! 	oh dear ! 
too high to be enthrall'd to low . 	I am too good to be in love with someone so low ! 
or else misgraffed in respect of years— O spite ! 	or else mismatched in terms of years;— Oh spite ! 
too old to be engag'd to young . 	I am too old to be engaged to someone so young ! 
to choose love by another's eyes . 	to choose love by what another person sees ! 
a good persuasion; therefore ,  hear me ,  Hermia . 	a good argument; therefore ,  listen to me ,  Hermia . 
there ,  gentle Hermia ,  may I marry thee; And to that place the sharp Athenian law Cannot pursue us . 	there ,  gentle Hermia ,  I may marry you; And the sharp Athenian law cannot follow us To that place . 
If thou lovest me then ,  Steal forth thy father's house tomorrow night; And in the wood ,  a league without the town ,  Where I did meet thee once with Helena To do observance to a morn of May ,  There will I stay for thee . 	If you love me then ,  Sneaker away from your father's house tomorrow night; And ,  in the forest ,  three miles outside town ,  Where I met you once ,  with Helena ,  To celebrate a May Day morning party ,  I will wait for you there . 
my good Lysander ! 	my good Lysander ! 
I swear to thee ,  by Cupid's strongest bow ,  By his best arrow ,  with the golden head ,  By the simplicity of Venus' doves ,  By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves ,  And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage Queen ,  When the false Trojan under sail was seen ,  By all the vows that ever men have broke ,  In number more than ever women spoke ,  In that same place thou hast appointed me ,  Tomorrow truly will I meet with thee . 	I swear to you by Cupid's strongest bow ,  By his best arrow ,  the one with the golden head ,  By the simplicity of Venus' doves ,  By that which knits souls and favors lovers ,  And by that fire which burned Dido ,  the Carthage queen ,  When the false Trojan ,  Aeneas ,  was seen sailing away , — By all the vows that men have forever broken ,  In greater numbers than women have ever spoken , — In that same place you have described to me ,  I will meet you tomorrow ,  truly . 
keep promise ,  love . 	keep that promise ,  love . 
look ,  here comes Helena . 	look ,  here comes Helena . 
god speed fair Helena ! 	hi ,  fair Helena ! 
whither away ? 	where are you going ? 
were the world mine ,  Demetrius being bated ,  The rest I'd give to be to you translated . 	If the world were mine ,  and Demetrius mine ,  I would give everything else to you to be changed anyway you want . 
o ,  teach me how you look ,  and with what art You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart ! 	oh ,  teach me your look ,  and with what magic You have stolen Demetrius' heart ! 
I frown upon him ,  yet he loves me still . 	I frown at him ,  but he still loves me . 
o that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill ! 	oh I wish your frowns would teach my smiles to have that effect ! 
I give him curses ,  yet he gives me love . 	I give him curses ,  but he gives me love . 
o that my prayers could such affection move ! 	oh that my prayers could be answered with such affection ! 
the more I hate ,  the more he follows me . 	the more I hate him ,  the more he follows me around . 
the more I love ,  the more he hateth me . 	the more I love him ,  the more he hates me . 
his folly ,  Helena ,  is no fault of mine . 	his silly behavior ,  Helena ,  is not my fault . 
take comfort: he no more shall see my face; Lysander and myself will fly this place . 	take it easy; he shall see my face no more; Lysander and I are going to leave this place quickly . 
before the time I did Lysander see ,  Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me . 	before I started seeing Lysander ,  Athens seemed like a paradise to me . 
o ,  then ,  what graces in my love do dwell ,  That he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell ! 	oh ,  so what graces ,  then ,  does he have ,  That he has turned a heaven into hell ! 
keep word ,  Lysander; we must starve our sight From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight . 	we must not give in To hugs and kisses until midnight tomorrow . 
I will ,  my Hermia . 	I will ,  my Hermia . 
how happy some o'er other some can be ! 	how happy can some other  “ other ”  be ! 
through Athens I am thought as fair as she . 	I am considered as fair as she is throughout Athens . 
but what of that ? 	but so what ? 
demetrius thinks not so; He will not know what all but he do know . 	demetrius doesn’t think so; He won’t know what everyone but him knows . 
things base and vile ,  holding no quantity ,  Love can transpose to form and dignity . 	love can transpose things that are low and ugly ,  Having no good qualities at all ,  Into things that have beauty and dignity . 
love looks not with the eyes ,  but with the mind; And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind . 	love doesn’t look with the eyes ,  but with the mind; And that’s why Cupid is painted with a blindfold . 
as waggish boys in game themselves forswear ,  So the boy Love is perjured everywhere; For ere Demetrius look'd on Hermia's eyne ,  He hail'd down oaths that he was only mine; And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt ,  So he dissolv'd ,  and showers of oaths did melt . 	because ,  before Demetrius looked on Hermia's eyes ,  He swore many oaths that he was only mine; And ,  when this torrent of oaths was rejected by Hermia ,  Demetrius dissolved ,  and his oaths melted too . 
I will go tell him of fair Hermia's flight; Then to the wood will he tomorrow night Pursue her; and for this intelligence If I have thanks ,  it is a dear expense . 	I’ll tell him of fair Hermia's flight; Then tomorrow night ,  he will pursue her To the forest ,  and ,  even if he just thanks me For this knowledge ,  it is sweet payment . 
but herein mean I to enrich my pain ,  To have his sight thither and back again . 	but I mean to make my pain worth suffering ,  To have him look at me there and back again . 
Is all our company here ? 	Is everybody here ? 
you were best to call them generally ,  man by man ,  according to the scrip . 	It would be better if you took attendance ,  man by man ,  according to the list . 
here is the scroll of every man's name ,  which is thought fit ,  through all Athens ,  to play in our interlude before the duke and the duchess on his wedding - day at night . 	here is the list of every man's name ,  who are thought to be the best in all Athens ,  to play in our play before the duke and duchess at night on their wedding - day . 
first ,  good Peter Quince ,  say what the play treats on; then read the names of the actors; and so grow to a point . 	first ,  good Peter Quince ,  tell us what the play’s about ,  then read the names of the actors; and so get to the point . 
marry ,  our play is ,  The Most Lamentable Comedy and Most Cruel Death of Pyramus and Thisbe . 	by Mary ,  our play is—The most lamentable comedy and most cruel death of Pyramus and Thisbe . 
masters ,  spread yourselves . 	ok ,  guys ,  spread out . 
ready . 	I’m ready . 
name what part I am for ,  and proceed . 	tell me what my part is ,  and then proceed . 
you ,  Nick Bottom ,  are set down for Pyramus . 	you ,  Nick Bottom ,  are set down for Pyramus . 
what is Pyramus ? 	what is Pyramus ? 
a lover ,  or a tyrant ? 	a lover ,  or a tyrant ? 
a lover ,  that kills himself most gallant for love . 	a lover that kills himself most gallantly for love . 
that will ask some tears in the true performing of it . 	that will require some tears in the true performance of it . 
If I do it ,  let the audience look to their eyes; I will move storms; I will condole in some measure . 	I will move them to storms of tears; I will rouse their pity in some measure . 
francis Flute ,  the bellows - mender . 	francis Flute ,  the bellows - mender . 
here ,  Peter Quince . 	here ,  Peter Quince . 
flute ,  you must take Thisbe on you . 	flute ,  you must take the role of Thisbe . 
what is Thisbe ? 	what is Thisbe ? 
a wandering knight ? 	a wandering knight ? 
It is the lady that Pyramus must love . 	It is the lady that Pyramus loves . 
nay ,  faith ,  let not me play a woman; I have a beard coming . 	no ,  please ,  don’t let me play a woman; I have a beard starting t o grow . 
that's all one; you shall play it in a mask ,  and you may speak as small as you will . 	that’s nothing to worry about; You shall play it with a mask on ,  and you can make your voice as light as you want . 
an I may hide my face ,  let me play Thisbe too . 	If I can hide my face ,  let me play Thisbe too . 
well ,  proceed . 	ok .  Go ahead . 
robin Starveling ,  the tailor . 	robin Starveling ,  the tailor . 
here ,  Peter Quince . 	here ,  Peter Quince . 
here ,  Peter Quince . 	here ,  Peter Quince . 
have you the lion's part written ? 	have you written the lion's part ? 
pray you ,  if it be ,  give it me ,  for I am slow of study . 	please ,  if it is ,  give it to me now ,  because I am slow in studying my lines . 
you may do it extempore ,  for it is nothing but roaring . 	you may do it off the top of your head ,  because it’s nothing but roaring . 
let me play the lion too . 	let me play the lion too . 
I will roar that I will do any man's heart good to hear me; I will roar ,  that I will make the duke say ‘Let him roar again ,  let him roar again . ’ An you should do it too terribly ,  you would fright the duchess and the ladies ,  that they would shriek; and that were enough to hang us all . 	I will roar so well that it will do any man's heart good to hear me; I will roar so well that I will make the duke say ,   “ Let him roar again ,  let him roar again .  ”  If you should do it too terribly ,  you would so frighten the duchess and the ladies ,  that they would scream; and that would be enough to hang us all . 
that would hang us ,  every mother's son . 	that would hang us ,  every mother's son . 
you can play no part but Pyramus; for Pyramus is a sweet - faced man; a proper man ,  as one shall see in a summer's day; a most lovely gentleman - like man; therefore you must needs play Pyramus . 	you can play no part but Pyramus; for Pyramus is a sweet - faced man; a proper man that you shall see on a summer's day; a most lovely gentleman - like man; therefore you must absolutely play Pyramus . 
well ,  I will undertake it . 	oK ,  I’ll do it . 
what beard were I best to play it in ? 	what beard would be best to play it in ? 
why ,  what you will . 	whichever one you want . 
I will discharge it in either your straw color beard ,  your orange - tawny beard ,  your purple - in - grain beard ,  or your French crown color beard ,  your perfect yellow . 	I will play it in either your straw - color beard ,  your orange - tawny beard ,  your purple - in - grain beard ,  or your French - crown - color beard ,  your perfect yellow . 
some of your French crowns have no hair at all ,  and then you will play barefaced . 	some of your French crowns have no hair at all ,  and then you will play it with no beard ! 
In the meantime I will draw a bill of properties ,  such as our play wants . 	In the meantime ,  I will draw a list of props ,  that our play needs . 
I pray you ,  fail me not . 	I beg you ,  don’t let me down . 
we will meet; and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously . 	we will meet; and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously . 
take pains; be perfect; adieu . 	be careful; be perfect; goodbye . 
at the duke's oak we meet . 	we’ll meet at the duke's oak . 
enough; hold ,  or cut bow - strings . 	enough; stay or get going ! 
how now ,  spirit ! 	hey ,  spirit ! 
whither wander you ? 	where are you going ? 
over hill ,  over dale ,  Thorough bush ,  thorough brier ,  Over park ,  over pale ,  Thorough flood ,  thorough fire ,  I do wander every where ,  Swifter than the moon's sphere; And I serve the fairy queen ,  To dew her orbs upon the green . 	over hill ,  over dale ,  Through bush ,  through brier ,  Over park ,  over pale ,  Through flood ,  through fire ,  I am going everywhere ,  Quicker than the moon goes through the sky; And I serve the fairy queen ,  To put dewdrops into her eyes upon the green . 
farewell ,  thou lob of spirits; I'll be gone . 	farewell ,  you group of spirits; I have to get going . 
our queen and all her elves come here anon . 	our queen and all her elves are coming here any minute ! 
the king doth keep his revels here tonight; Take heed the queen come not within his sight; For Oberon is passing fell and wrath ,  Because that she as her attendant hath A lovely boy ,  stolen from an Indian king . 	oberon is really angry and annoyed ,  Because she ,  just like her attendant ,  has A lovely boy ,  that was stolen from an Indian king; She has never had so sweet a baby that was stolen . 
and now they never meet in grove or green ,  By fountain clear ,  or spangled starlight sheen ,  But they do square ,  that all their elves for fear Creep into acorn cups and hide them there . 	and now Titania and Oberon can never meet in the grove or on green ,  By a clear fountain ,  or spangled shiny starlight ,  But they refuse to settle the issue ,  so that all their elves Creep into acorn cups ,  and hide them there ,  because they’re so frightened . 
are not you he That frights the maidens of the villagery ,  Skim milk ,  and sometimes labor in the quern ,  And bootless make the breathless housewife churn ,  And sometime make the drink to bear no barm ,  Mislead night - wanderers ,  laughing at their harm ? 	aren’t you the guy That scares the maidens of the village; Skims cream from milk ,  and sometimes works the churn ,  And ,  bootless ,  makes the breathless housewife churn even harder; And sometimes makes the drink so that it doesn’t have a yeasty foam; Misleads wanderers who are out at night ,  laughing at their getting lost ? 
those that Hobgoblin call you ,  and sweet Puck ,  You do their work ,  and they shall have good luck . 	those that call you Hobgoblin ,  and sweet Puck ,  You do their work ,  and they shall have good luck . 
thou speakest aright: I am that merry wanderer of the night . 	I am that merry wanderer of the night . 
I jest to Oberon ,  and make him smile ,  When I a fat and bean - fed horse beguile ,  Neighing in likeness of a filly foal; And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl In very likeness of a roasted crab ,  And ,  when she drinks ,  against her lips I bob ,  And on her withered dewlap pour the ale . 	I am jester to Oberon and make him smile ,  as When I trick a fat horse that’s been eating beans into Neighing like a newborn female; And sometimes ,  I hide near to the town gossip's beer mug ,  Looking like a roasted crab; And ,  when the gossip drinks ,  I bob up ,  against her lips ,  And pour the ale on the withered skin of her neck skin all the way down . 
Ill met by moonlight ,  proud Titania . 	how unfortunate to meet you by moonlight ,  proud Titania . 
what ,  jealous Oberon ! 	well ,  well ,  jealous Oberon ! 
fairies ,  skip hence; I have forsworn his bed and company . 	fairies ,  let’s go; I have sworn not to go to his bed or to keep his company . 
tarry ,  rash wanton; am not I thy lord ? 	am not I your lord ? 
then I must be thy lady; but I know When thou hast stolen away from fairy land ,  And in the shape of Corin sat all day ,  Playing on pipes of corn ,  and versing love To amorous Phillida . 	then I must be your lady; but I also know that ,  When you have stolen away from fairy - land ,  And ,  taking the shape of Corin ,  the shepherd ,  You have sat all day ,  playing on pipes of corn ,  And speaking love poems to amorous Phillida . 
how canst thou thus ,  for shame ,  Titania ,  Glance at my credit with Hippolyta ,  Knowing I know thy love to Theseus ? 	how can you say these things ,  for shame ,  Titania ,  Give me a little more credit than that with Hippolyta ,  Knowing I know all about your love for Theseus ? 
didst not thou lead him through the glimmering night From Perigouna ,  whom he ravished ? 	didn’t you lead him through the glimmering night From Perigenia ,  the girl he had just raped ? 
and make him with fair Aegle break his faith ,  With Ariadne and Antiopa ? 	and make him break his promise with fair Aegle ,  Not to mention with Ariadne and Antiopa ? 
therefore the winds ,  piping to us in vain ,  As in revenge ,  have suck'd up from the sea Contagious fogs; which ,  falling in the land ,  Hath every pelting river made so proud That they have overborne their continents . 	these fogs which ,  falling in the land ,  Have made every rough river so high That they have flooded the continents where they flow . 
the human mortals want their winter here; No night is now with hymn or carol blest; Therefore the moon ,  the governess of floods ,  Pale in her anger ,  washes all the air ,  That rheumatic diseases do abound . 	the human mortals want their winter here; Blessed hymns and carols are sung every night— The moon that controls the flow of the floods ,  Pale in her anger ,  washes all the air ,  But there are still many bad diseases . 
and thorough this distemperature we see The seasons alter: hoary - headed frosts Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose; And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds Is ,  as in mockery ,  set . 	ice - cold frosts Freeze the fresh crimson roses; And on the old God of Harmony’s chin and icy crown ,  Is set a circle of sweet summer buds Almost in mockery of the frost . 
the spring ,  the summer ,  The childing autumn ,  angry winter ,  change Their wonted liveries; and the mazed world ,  By their increase ,  now knows not which is which . 	the spring ,  the summer ,  The pregnant autumn ,  and angry winter change Their usual clothes; and the amazed world ,  Now doesn’t know which is which by their apparel . 
do you amend it ,  then; it lies in you . 	then fix it . 
why should Titania cross her Oberon ? 	why should Titania cross her Oberon ? 
but she ,  being mortal ,  of that boy did die; And for her sake do I rear up her boy; And for her sake I will not part with him . 	but she ,  because she was mortal ,  died giving birth to the boy; And ,  for her sake ,  I am raising him ,  And ,  for her sake ,  I will not part with him . 
how long within this wood intend you stay ? 	how long do you intend to stay within this forest ? 
perchance till after Theseus' wedding - day . 	maybe until after Theseus' wedding - day . 
If you will patiently dance in our round ,  And see our moonlight revels ,  go with us; If not ,  shun me ,  and I will spare your haunts . 	If you will patiently join our dances ,  And see our moonlight parties ,  go with us; If not ,  leave me alone ,  and I won’t comment on where you’re going . 
give me that boy ,  and I will go with thee . 	give me that boy and I will go with you . 
not for thy fairy kingdom . 	not for your entire fairy kingdom . 
fairies ,  away . 	fairies ,  let’s go . 
we shall chide downright if I longer stay . 	this will only lead to another argument if I stay longer . 
my gentle Puck ,  come hither . 	my gentle Puck ,  come here . 
thou rememberest Since once I sat upon a promontory ,  And heard a mermaid ,  on a dolphin's back Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath ,  That the rude sea grew civil at her song ,  And certain stars shot madly from their spheres To hear the sea - maid's music . 	you remember That time I sat on a big rock by the ocean ,  And heard a mermaid ,  on a dolphin's back ,  Singing such a sweet and melodious song That the rough sea became calm when it heard it ,  And certain stars shot madly out of their orbits To hear the sea - maid's music ? 
I remember . 	I remember . 
yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell . 	but I watched and noted where Cupid’s arrow fell . 
the juice of it on sleeping eye - lids laid Will make or man or woman madly dote Upon the next live creature that it sees . 	putting the juice of it on sleeping eyelids Will make or man or woman madly fall in love With the next live creature that it sees . 
fetch me this herb ,  and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can swim a league . 	fetch me this herb and come right back Before a huge sea creature can swim three miles . 
I'll put a girdle round about the earth In forty minutes . 	I'll make my trip around the world In forty minutes . 
and ere I take this charm from off her sight ,  As I can take it with another herb ,  I'll make her render up her page to me . 	and before I remove this charm from her sight — Because I have another herb that is the antidote — I'll make her give that boy to me . 
but who comes here ? 	but who’s coming here ? 
I am invisible; And I will overhear their conference . 	I’ll make myself invisible ,  And I eavesdrop on their conversation . 
I love thee not ,  therefore pursue me not . 	I don’t love you ,  so stop following me . 
where is Lysander and fair Hermia ? 	where are Lysander and fair Hermia ? 
the one I'll slay ,  the other slayeth me . 	I’ll kill him ,  and she kills me . 
thou told'st me they were stolen unto this wood ,  And here am I ,  and wood within this wood ,  Because I cannot meet my Hermia . 	you told me they snuck into this forest ,  And I’m here and wander within this forest ,  Because I cannot meet Hermia . 
hence ,  get thee gone ,  and follow me no more . 	listen ,  get going and ,  once and for all ,  stop following me ! 
leave you your power to draw ,  And I shall have no power to follow you . 	even if you didn’t have the power to pull me ,  I would still be powerless not to follow you . 
do I entice you ? 	do I encourage you ? 
do I speak you fair ? 	do I talk to you sweetly ? 
or ,  rather ,  do I not in plainest truth Tell you I do not nor I cannot love you ? 	or ,  rather ,  do I not ,  in plainest truth ,  Tell you I do not and cannot love you ? 
and even for that do I love you the more . 	and even for that ,  I love you all the more . 
I am your spaniel; and ,  Demetrius ,  The more you beat me ,  I will fawn on you . 	I am your spaniel ,  and ,  Demetrius ,  The more you beat me ,  the more I will wag my tail for you . 
what worser place can I beg in your love , — And yet a place of high respect with me , — Than to be used as you use your dog ? 	what worse place can I beg in your love ,  And still keep my self - respect — Than to be used as you would use your dog ? 
tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit; For I am sick when I do look on thee . 	don’t try my patience and push me too hard ,  Because the sight of you makes me sick . 
and I am sick when I look not on you . 	and I am sick when I don’t look at you . 
you do impeach your modesty too much To leave the city and commit yourself Into the hands of one that loves you not; To trust the opportunity of night ,  And the ill counsel of a desert place ,  With the rich worth of your virginity . 	you are really putting your virginity at risk ,  To leave the city ,  and surrender yourself To the hands of someone who doesn’t love you ,  To go night thinking that nothing can happen ,  And to come to a deserted place ,  With something as rich as your virginity . 
your virtue is my privilege . 	I trust your virtue as a man . 
for that It is not night when I do see your face ,  Therefore I think I am not in the night; Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company ,  For you ,  in my respect ,  are all the world . 	It isn’t night whenever I see your face ,  So I don’t think it’s night ,  And this forest doesn’t lack worlds of company ,  For you ,  in my respect ,  are all the world . 
then how can it be said I am alone When all the world is here to look on me ? 	then how can it be said I am alone When the entire world is here to look at me ? 
I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes ,  And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts . 	I'll run from you ,  and hide in the bushes ,  And leave you to the mercy of wild beasts . 
run when you will; the story shall be changed: Apollo flies ,  and Daphne holds the chase; The dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind Makes speed to catch the tiger; bootless speed ,  When cowardice pursues and valour flies . 	apollo flies ,  and Daphne chases him; The dove pursues the vulture; the mild deer Runs faster to catch the tiger — helpless speed ,  When cowardice chases and courage flies . 
ay ,  in the temple ,  in the town ,  the field ,  You do me mischief . 	ay ,  in the temple ,  in the town ,  the field ,  You do something to me . 
fie ,  Demetrius ! 	shame on you ,  Demetrius ! 
I'll follow thee ,  and make a heaven of hell ,  To die upon the hand I love so well . 	I'll follow you ,  and make a heaven of hell ,  To die by the hand that I love so well . 
welcome ,  wanderer . 	welcome ,  wanderer . 
ay ,  there it is . 	yes ,  there it is . 
I pray thee give it me . 	please give it to me . 
thou shalt know the man By the Athenian garments he hath on . 	you’ll be able to identify the man By the Athenian garments he has on . 
effect it with some care ,  that he may prove More fond on her than she upon her love . 	please do this carefully ,  that he will be more in love with her than she is with him . 
and look thou meet me ere the first cock crow . 	and meet me before the first rooster crows at dawn . 
fear not ,  my lord; your servant shall do so . 	you have nothing to be afraid of ,  my lord; I’ll do it . 
come now ,  a roundel and a fairy song; Then ,  for the third part of a minute ,  hence: Some to kill cankers in the musk - rose buds; Some war with rere - mice for their leathern wings ,  To make my small elves coats; and some keep back The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders At our quaint spirits . 	come ,  now a dance and a fairy song ,  Then ,  for the third part of a minute ,  leave here ,  Some to kill bugs in the musk - rose buds ,  Some to kill red - mice for their leather wings ,  To make my small elves coats; and some to quiet The noisy owl ,  that nightly hoots and wonders About us . 
sing me now asleep; Then to your offices ,  and let me rest . 	sing me now to sleep ,  Then go to your tasks ,  and let me rest . 
song] You spotted snakes with double tongue ,  Thorny hedgehogs ,  be not seen; Newts and blind - worms ,  do no wrong ,  Come not near our fairy Queen . 	you spotted snakes ,  with double tongue ,  Thorny hedgehogs ,  be not seen; Newts and blindworms do no wrong; Come not near our fairy queen . 
philomel with melody Sing in our sweet lullaby . 	philomel ,  with melody ,  Sing in our sweet lullaby . 
lulla ,  lulla ,  lullaby; lulla ,  lulla ,  lullaby . 	lulla ,  lulla ,  lullaby; lulla ,  lulla ,  lullaby . 
philomel with melody ,  &amp;c .  Hence away; now all is well . 	let’s go; now all is well . 
one aloof stand sentinel . 	one of you ,  stand sentinel over there . 
wake when some vile thing is near . 	wake when some vile thing is near . 
fair love ,  you faint with wandering in the wood; And ,  to speak troth ,  I have forgot our way; We'll rest us ,  Hermia ,  if you think it good ,  And tarry for the comfort of the day . 	fair love ,  you are exhausted with wandering in the forest . 
be it so ,  Lysander: find you out a bed ,  For I upon this bank will rest my head . 	you find yourself a bed ,  And I will rest my head upon this bank . 
one turf shall serve as pillow for us both; One heart ,  one bed ,  two bosoms ,  and one troth . 	one bit of land will be a pillow for us both; One heart ,  one bed ,  two bosoms ,  and one trust . 
o ,  take the sense ,  sweet ,  of my innocence ! 	oh ,  sweetheart ,  take what I said in an innocent sense . 
love takes the meaning in love's conference . 	love takes the meaning in love's conversation . 
then by your side no bed - room me deny ,  For lying so ,  Hermia ,  I do not lie . 	then don’t tell me not to sleep by your side ,  Because in sleeping near you ,  Hermia ,  I do not lie . 
lysander riddles very prettily . 	lysander riddles very prettily . 
now much beshrew my manners and my pride ,  If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied ! 	now curse my manners and my pride If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied ! 
thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end ! 	may your love never change until your sweet life ends ! 
amen ,  amen ,  to that fair prayer say I; And then end life when I end loyalty ! 	amen ,  amen ,  I say to that fair prayer ,  And then my life end when I end loyalty ! 
through the forest have I gone ,  But Athenian found I none ,  On whose eyes I might approve This flower's force in stirring love . 	I’ve gone through the whole forest ,  But I haven’t found any Athenian On whose eyes I might pour This flower's juice to stir his love . 
pretty soul ! 	pretty soul ! 
she durst not lie Near this lack - love ,  this kill - courtesy . 	she doesn’t dare lie Near this lack - love ,  this kill - courtesy . 
so awake when I am gone; For I must now to Oberon . 	so awake when I am gone; For I must go now to Oberon . 
stay ,  though thou kill me ,  sweet Demetrius . 	stay ,  though you kill me ,  sweet Demetrius . 
I charge thee ,  hence ,  and do not haunt me thus . 	I order you ,  get far away from me and do not haunt me thus . 
o ,  wilt thou darkling leave me ? 	oh ,  will you ,  a dark - natured man ,  leave me ? 
do not so . 	don’t . 
stay on thy peril; I alone will go . 	stay here at your own risk; I will go on alone . 
o ,  I am out of breath in this fond chase ! 	oh ,  I am out of breath in this happy chase ! 
the more my prayer ,  the lesser is my grace . 	the more I pray ,  the less grace I have . 
happy is Hermia ,  wheresoe'er she lies ,  For she hath blessed and attractive eyes . 	hermia is happy ,  wherever she lies ,  Because she has blessed and attractive eyes . 
how came her eyes so bright ? 	how did her eyes come to be so bright ? 
what wicked and dissembling glass of mine Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne ? 	what wicked and lying mirror of mine Made me compare my eyes with Hermia's ? 
but who is here ? 	but who’s here ? —Lysander ! 
on the ground ! 	on the ground ! 
I see no blood ,  no wound . 	I see no blood ,  no wound . 
lysander ,  if you live ,  good sir ,  awake . 	lysander ,  if you live ,  good sir ,  wake up ! 
waking] And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake . 	and I will run through fire ,  I will ,  for your sweet sake . 
transparent Helena ! 	transparent Helena ! 
nature shows art ,  That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart . 	nature has made it so that I can see through your chest all the way to your heart . 
where is Demetrius ? 	where is Demetrius ? 
o ,  how fit a word Is that vile name to perish on my sword ! 	oh ,  how fitting it is that That vile name should perish on my sword ! 
do not say so ,  Lysander; say not so . 	don’t say that ,  Lysander ,  don’t say that . 
what though he love your Hermia ? 	so what if he loves your Hermia ? 
lord ,  what though ? 	lord ,  so what ? 
content with Hermia ! 	content with Hermia ? 
the will of man is by his reason sway'd ,  And reason says you are the worthier maid . 	the will of man is persuaded by his reason ,  And reason says you are the worthier maid . 
things growing are not ripe until their season; So I ,  being young ,  till now ripe not to reason; And touching now the point of human skill ,  Reason becomes the marshal to my will ,  And leads me to your eyes ,  where I o'erlook Love's stories ,  written in Love's richest book . 	things that grow are not ripe until it’s their season to be ripe ,  So I ,  being young ,  have not been ripened in reason ,  And touching the point of human skill now ,  Reason has become the commander of my will ,  And it leads me to your eyes ,  where I see Love's stories ,  written in love's richest book . 
wherefore was I to this keen mockery born ? 	why was I born to this keen mockery ? 
when at your hands did I deserve this scorn ? 	when did I earn this scorn at your hands ? 
Is't not enough ,  is't not enough ,  young man ,  That I did never ,  no ,  nor never can ,  Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye ,  But you must flout my insufficiency ? 	Isn’t it enough ,  isn’t it enough ,  young man ,  That I never did ,  no ,  nor never can Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye ,  But you must joke about what I’m lacking ? 
good troth ,  you do me wrong ,  good sooth ,  you do ,  In such disdainful manner me to woo . 	good lord ,  you do me wrong— good lord ,  you do— To court me In such disdainful manner . 
o ,  that a lady of one man refused Should of another therefore be abused ! 	oh ,  that a lady of one man refused Should therefore be abused by another ! 
lysander ,  look how I do quake with fear . 	lysander ,  look how I shake with fear ! 
what ,  removed ? 	what ,  gone ? 
lysander ! 	lysander ! 
lord ! 	lord ! 
what ,  out of hearing ? 	what ,  can’t hear me ? 
gone ? 	gone ? 
no sound ,  no word ? 	no sound ,  no word ? 
alack ,  where are you ? 	o my ,  where are you ? 
speak ,  an if you hear; Speak ,  of all loves ! 	speak ,  if you hear me; Speak ,  of all loves ! 
I swoon almost with fear . 	I almost faint with fear . 
then I well perceive you are not nigh . 	no ? —then I can see that you’re not near . 
either death or you I'll find immediately . 	I'll find either death or you immediately . 
are we all met ? 	are we all here ? 
pat ,  pat; and here's a marvellous convenient place for our rehearsal . 	ready ,  ready; and here's a marvelously convenient place for our rehearsal . 
this green plot shall be our stage ,  this hawthorn - brake our tiring - house; and we will do it in action ,  as we will do it before the Duke . 	this green plot shall be our stage ,  this hawthorn bush our dressing room ,  and we will do it just as we will do it before the duke . 
peter Quince , — What sayest thou ,  bully Bottom ? 	peter Quince— What do you say ,  bully Bottom ? 
there are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisbe that will never please . 	there are things in this comedy of  “ Pyramus and Thisbe ”  that will never please an audience . 
first ,  Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself; which the ladies cannot abide . 	first ,  Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself ,  which the ladies cannot stand . 
how answer you that ? 	what do you think about that ? 
by'r lakin ,  a parlous fear . 	damn ,  a risky business . 
I believe we must leave the killing out ,  when all is done . 	I believe we must leave the killing out ,  when all is said and done . 
this will put them out of fear . 	this will keep them from being frightened . 
no ,  make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight . 	no ,  make it two lines more . 
will not the ladies be afeard of the lion ? 	won’t the ladies be afraid of the lion ? 
I fear it ,  I promise you . 	I’m afraid so ,  I promise you . 
therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion . 	well then ,  another prologue must say that he is not really a lion . 
nay ,  you must name his name ,  and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through ,  saying thus ,  or to the same defect: —‘Ladies , ’ —or ‘Fair ladies , —I would wish you’—or ‘I would request you’ —or ‘I would entreat you , —not to fear ,  not to tremble . 	you must tell his name and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck ,  and he himself must speak through the mask saying this ,  or something to the same defect , — " Ladies ,  "  or  " Fair ladies ,  I would wish you ,  or ,  I would request you ,  or ,  I would entreat you ,  not to be afraid ,  not to tremble . 
my life for yours ! 	my life for yours . 
If you think I come hither as a lion ,  it were pity of my life . 	If you think I come here as a lion ,  shame on me . 
well ,  it shall be so . 	well ,  OK . 
but there is two hard things; that is ,  to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for ,  you know ,  Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight . 	but there are two more hard things ,  that is ,  to bring the moonlight into a chamber ,  because ,  as you know ,  Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight . 
doth the moon shine that night we play our play ? 	does the moon shine that night we play our play ? 
a calendar ,  a calendar ! 	a calendar ,  a calendar ! 
yes ,  it doth shine that night . 	yes ,  it does shine that night . 
why ,  then may you leave a casement of the great chamber window ,  where we play ,  open; and the moon may shine in at the casement . 	why ,  then may you leave a panel of the great chamber - window ,  where we play ,  open; and the moon may shine in at that panel . 
ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lantern ,  and say he comes to disfigure ,  or to present ,  the person of moonshine . 	ay ,  or else someone must come in with a bush of thorns and a lantern ,  and say he comes to imitate or to present the person of moonshine . 
some man or other must present Wall; and let him have some plaster ,  or some loam ,  or some rough - cast about him ,  to signify wall; and let him hold his fingers thus ,  and through that cranny shall Pyramus and Thisbe whisper . 	some man or other must look like a wall ,  and let him have some plaster ,  or some loam ,  or some rough - cast cement around him to signify the wall ,  and let him hold his fingers open like this ,  and through that cranny ,  Pyramus and Thisbe will whisper . 
If that may be ,  then all is well . 	If that can be done ,  then I think we’ve covered everything . 
come ,  sit down ,  every mother's son ,  and rehearse your parts . 	come ,  sit down ,  every mother's son ,  and rehearse your parts . 
what hempen home - spuns have we swagg'ring here ,  So near the cradle of the fairy queen ? 	what woven country - folk do we have swaggering here ,  So near the cradle of the fairy queen ? 
what ,  a play toward ! 	what ,  a play ! 
I'll be an auditor; An actor too perhaps ,  if I see cause . 	I'll listen ,  be An actor too perhaps ,  if I see a place to jump in . 
must I speak now ? 	must I speak now ? 
ay ,  marry ,  must you; for you must understand he goes but to see a noise that he heard ,  and is to come again . 	ay ,  darn it ,  you must because you must understand he only Goes to see a noise that he heard ,  and will come again . 
you speak all your part at once ,  cues ,  and all . 	you speak your whole part all at once ,  cues ,  and all . —Pyramus enter . 
o strange ! 	oh strange ! 
we are haunted . 	we are attacked by ghosts . 
fly ,  masters ! 	let’s go ,  guys ! 
help ! 	help ! 
I'll follow you; I'll lead you about a round ,  Through bog ,  through bush ,  through brake ,  through brier; Sometime a horse I'll be ,  sometime a hound ,  A hog ,  a headless bear ,  sometime a fire; And neigh ,  and bark ,  and grunt ,  and roar ,  and burn ,  Like horse ,  hound ,  hog ,  bear ,  fire ,  at every turn . 	I'll follow you; I'll lead you in a circle ,  Through bog ,  through bush ,  through more bushes ,  through brier; Sometimes I’ll be a horse ,  sometimes a hound dog ,  A hog ,  a headless bear ,  sometimes a fire; And neigh ,  and bark ,  and grunt ,  and roar ,  and burn ,  Like horse ,  hound ,  hog ,  bear ,  fire ,  at every turn . 
why do they run away ? 	why do they run away ? 
this is a knavery of them to make me afeard . 	this is a bad joke of theirs to frighten me . 
o Bottom ,  thou art changed ! 	oh Bottom ,  you are changed ! 
what do I see on thee ? 	what do I see on you ? 
what do you see ? 	what do you see ? 
you see an ass - head of your own ,  do you ? 	you see an donkey - head of your own ,  do you ? 
I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me; to fright me ,  if they could . 	this is to make a donkey of me ,  to frighten me ,  if they can . 
the ousel cock ,  so black of hue ,  With orange - tawny bill ,  The throstle with his note so true ,  The wren with little quill . 	the black rooster ,  so black of hue ,  With orange - tawny bill ,  The thrush with his note so true ,  The wren with little quill . 
awakening] What angel wakes me from my flowery bed ? 	what angel wakes me from my flowery bed ? 
mine ear is much enamored of thy note; So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape; And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me ,  On the first view to say ,  to swear ,  I love thee . 	so my eye is very attracted to your shape; And your fair virtue's force violently moves me ,  On the first look of you ,  to say ,  to swear ,  I love you . 
the more the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends . 	the more’s the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends . 
nay ,  I can gleek upon occasion . 	no ,  I can only make a joke for a specific occasion . 
thou art as wise as thou art beautiful . 	you are as wise as you are beautiful . 
I am a spirit of no common rate; The summer still doth tend upon my state; And I do love thee; therefore ,  go with me . 	I am a spirit of no simple power— The summer still waits for me And I love you . 
moth ! 	moth ! 
and Mustardseed ! 	and Mustardseed ! 
ready . 	ready . 
and I . 	and I . 
and I . 	and I . 
and I . 	and I . 
where shall we go ? 	where shall we go ? 
be kind and courteous to this gentleman; Hop in his walks ,  and gambol in his eyes; Feed him with apricocks and dewberries ,  With purple grapes ,  green figs ,  and mulberries; The honey - bags steal from the humble - bees ,  And for night - tapers crop their waxen thighs ,  And light them at the fiery glow - worm's eyes ,  To have my love to bed and to arise; And pluck the wings from painted butterflies ,  To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes . 	be kind and courteous to this gentleman; Jump into his steps as he walks and dance in his eyes; Feed him apricots and dewberries ,  Purple grapes ,  green figs ,  and mulberries; Steal the honey bags from the bumblebees ,  And ,  for night lights ,  cut their waxen thighs ,  And light them at the fiery glow - worm's eyes ,  In order to have my love go to sleep and wake up ,  And pluck the wings from painted butterflies ,  To fan the moonbeams out of sleeping eyes . 
nod to him ,  elves ,  and do him courtesies . 	greet him ,  elves ,  and do him courtesies . 
hail ,  mortal ! 	hail ,  mortal ! 
hail ! 	hail ! 
hail ! 	hail ! 
hail ! 	hail ! 
I cry your worships mercy ,  heartily; I beseech your worship's name . 	I beg your honors’ mercy ,  heartily . —What is your name ? 
cobweb . 	cobweb . 
I shall desire you of more acquaintance ,  good Master Cobweb . 	I would like to get to know you better ,  good Master Cobweb . 
peaseblossom . 	peasblossom . 
mustardseed . 	mustardseed . 
good Master Mustardseed ,  I know your patience well . 	good Master Mustardseed ,  I know you well . 
that same cowardly giant - like ox - beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house . 	that same cowardly giant - like roast beef has devoured many people from your family . 
I promise you your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now . 	I promise you your relatives have made my eyes water before now . 
I desire your more acquaintance ,  good Master Mustardseed . 	I want to get to know you as well ,  good Master Mustardseed . 
come ,  wait upon him; lead him to my bower . 	come on ,  wait on him; lead him to my private apartment . 
the moon ,  methinks ,  looks with a watery eye; And when she weeps ,  weeps every little flower; Lamenting some enforced chastity . 	the moon ,  I think ,  looks as if she has watery eyes ,  And when she weeps ,  every little flower weeps ,  Lamenting some enforced chastity . 
tie up my love's tongue ,  bring him silently . 	cover his mouth ,  bring him silently . 
I wonder if Titania be awaked; Then ,  what it was that next came in her eye ,  Which she must dote on in extremity . 	I wonder if Titania is up yet ,  And what it was that next came into her sight ,  Which she must love in the extreme . 
what night - rule now about this haunted grove ? 	what’s going on now about this haunted grove ? 
my mistress with a monster is in love . 	my mistress is in love with a monster . 
near to her close and consecrated bower ,  While she was in her dull and sleeping hour ,  A crew of patches ,  rude mechanicals ,  That work for bread upon Athenian stalls ,  Were met together to rehearse a play ,  Intended for great Theseus' nuptial - day . 	near to her close and consecrated private place ,  While she was sleeping ,  A crew of actors ,  rude mechanicals ,  That work for bread near Athenian shops ,  Were met together to rehearse a play Intended for great Theseus' wedding day . 
the shallowest thick - skin of that barren sort ,  Who Pyramus presented ,  in their sport Forsook his scene and ent'red in a brake; When I did him at this advantage take ,  An ass's nole I fixed on his head . 	the stupidest man of these dim country - folk Who acted Pyramus in their rehearsal ,  Exited from his scene and entered in a bunch of bushes ,  When I took advantage of him And I fixed donkey's head on his head . 
anon his Thisbe must be answered ,  And forth my mimic comes . 	then ,  his Thisbe must be answered ,  And my creation comes back to the rehearsal . 
their sense thus weak ,  lost with their fears thus strong ,  Made senseless things begin to do them wrong ,  For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch; Some sleeves ,  some hats ,  from yielders all things catch . 	their senses thus weakened ,  lost within their strong fears ,  Made senseless things begin to do them wrong ,  Because briers and thorns catch their clothes ,  Some sleeves ,  some hats . 
this falls out better than I could devise . 	this works out better than I could have planned . 
but hast thou yet latch'd the Athenian's eyes With the love - juice ,  as I did bid thee do ? 	but have you touched the Athenian's eyes With the love - juice yet ,  as I told you to ? 
I took him sleeping , —that is finish'd too , — And the Athenian woman by his side; That ,  when he waked ,  of force she must be eyed . 	I did it while he was sleeping , —that is finished too , — And the Athenian woman by his side ,  So that ,  when he woke up ,  she must ,  of course ,  be the first he saw . 
stand close; this is the same Athenian . 	stand close; this is the same Athenian . 
this is the woman ,  but not this the man . 	this is the woman ,  but not this the man . 
o ,  why rebuke you him that loves you so ? 	oh ,  why do you reject him that loves you so ? 
lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe . 	say these bitter things to your bitter foe . 
now I but chide ,  but I should use thee worse ,  For thou ,  I fear ,  hast given me cause to curse . 	now I only scold ,  but I should give you worse; Because you ,  I fear ,  has given me cause to curse . 
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep ,  Being o'er shoes in blood ,  plunge in the deep ,  And kill me too . 	If you have slain Lysander in his sleep ,  Being in blood over your shoes ,  plunge the knife Deep into me and kill me too . 
the sun was not so true unto the day As he to me . 	the sun was not as true to the daytime As he was to me . 
would he have stolen away From sleeping Hermia ? 	would he have stolen away From sleeping Hermia ? 
I'll believe as soon This whole earth may be bored ,  and that the moon May through the centre creep and so displease Her brother's noontide with the Antipodes . 	I'd believe as quickly that This whole earth may be bored ,  and that the moon May creep through the centre and so disrupt Her brother's noontide with the other side of the world . 
It cannot be but thou hast murder'd him; So should a murderer look ,  so dead ,  so grim . 	It can only mean that you have murdered him; A murderer should look like you ,  so dead ,  so grim . 
what's this to my Lysander ? 	what's this got to do with my Lysander ? 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
ah ,  good Demetrius ,  wilt thou give him me ? 	ah ,  good Demetrius ,  will you give him to me ? 
I had rather give his carcass to my hounds . 	I had rather give his carcass to my hounds . 
out ,  dog ! 	get out ,  dog ! 
out ,  cur ! 	get out ,  low - life ! 
thou drivest me past the bounds Of maiden's patience . 	you drive me past the bounds Of a maiden's patience . 
hast thou slain him ,  then ? 	have you slain him ,  then ? 
henceforth be never number'd among men ! 	oh ! 
o ,  once tell true; tell true ,  even for my sake ! 	for once tell the truth; tell the truth ,  even for my sake . 
durst thou have look'd upon him being awake ,  And hast thou kill'd him sleeping ? 	did you dare to look at him ,  being awake ,  And have you killed him sleeping ? 
o brave touch ! 	oh brave touch ! 
could not a worm ,  an adder ,  do so much ? 	couldn’t a worm ,  a poisonous snake ,  do as much ? 
you spend your passion on a misprised mood: I am not guilty of Lysander's blood; Nor is he dead ,  for aught that I can tell . 	I am not guilty of killing Lysander; And he isn’t dead ,  as far as I can tell . 
I pray thee ,  tell me then that he is well . 	I beg you ,  tell me ,  then ,  that he is well . 
an if I could ,  what should I get therefore ? 	and if I could ,  what should I get for saying so ? 
and from thy hated presence part I so; See me no more ,  whether he be dead or no . 	you will see me no more ,  whether he be dead or not . 
so sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe; Which now in some slight measure it will pay ,  If for his tender here I make some stay . 	so sorrow's heaviness does heavier grow Because my sleep has been interrupted . 
what hast thou done ? 	what have you done ? 
thou hast mistaken quite ,  And laid the love - juice on some true - love's sight . 	you have made a major mistake ,  And laid the love - juice on some true - love's sight . 
of thy misprision must perforce ensue Some true love turn'd ,  and not a false turn'd true . 	some true love turned false must follow because of your mistake ,  And not a false love turned true . 
then fate o'er - rules ,  that ,  one man holding troth ,  A million fail ,  confounding oath on oath . 	then fate overrules me ,  that ,  as one man keeping his promise ,  A million fail in keeping theirs ,  confusing oath on oath . 
I go ,  I go; look how I go ,  Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow . 	I go ,  I go; look how I go , — Swifter than an arrow from the barbarian’s bow . 
flower of this purple dye ,  Hit with Cupid's archery ,  Sink in apple of his eye . 	flower with this purple dye ,  Hit by Cupid's arrow ,  Sink into the apple of his eye ! 
captain of our fairy band ,  Helena is here at hand ,  And the youth ,  mistook by me Pleading for a lover's fee; Shall we their fond pageant see ? 	captain of our fairy band ,  Helena is here at hand ,  And the youth mistaken by me Pleading for her love; Shall we watch what they’re doing ? 
lord ,  what fools these mortals be ! 	o ,  beware ,  my lord ,  of jealousy; Lord ,  what fools these mortals be ! 
stand aside . 	stand aside . 
the noise they make Will cause Demetrius to awake . 	the noise they make Will cause Demetrius to awake . 
why should you think that I should woo in scorn ? 	why should you think that I should not court you seriously ? 
scorn and derision never come in tears . 	you cannot find scorn and derision in tears of love . 
look when I vow ,  I weep; and vows so born ,  In their nativity all truth appears . 	look ,  when I vow ,  I weep; and vows that are born in tears Show the whole truth at that moment . 
how can these things in me seem scorn to you ,  Bearing the badge of faith ,  to prove them true ? 	how can these things in me seem like ridicule to you ,  When my tears prove them to be true ? 
you do advance your cunning more and more . 	you move your cunning ahead more and more . 
when truth kills truth ,  O devilish - holy fray ! 	when truth kills truth ,  oh devilish - holy fight ! 
these vows are Hermia's . 	these vows are Hermia's . 
will you give her o'er ? 	will you give her up ? 
I had no judgment when to her I swore . 	I had no sense of judgment when I swore love to her . 
nor none ,  in my mind ,  now you give her o'er . 	nor none ,  in my mind ,  now you give her up . 
demetrius loves her ,  and he loves not you . 	demetrius loves her ,  and he doesn’t love you . 
to what ,  my love ,  shall I compare thine eyne ? 	what ,  my love ,  shall I compare your eyes to ? 
crystal is muddy . 	crystal is muddy . 
o ,  how ripe in show Thy lips ,  those kissing cherries ,  tempting grow ! 	oh ,  how ripe your lips are ,  Those kissing cherries grow tempting ! 
that pure congealed white ,  high Taurus' snow ,  Fann'd with the eastern wind ,  turns to a crow When thou hold'st up thy hand . 	when you hold up your hand that pure congealed white top ,  High Taurus' snow ,  fanned with the eastern wind ,  Turns to a crow . 
o ,  let me kiss This princess of pure white ,  this seal of bliss ! 	oh ,  let me kiss This princess hand of pure white ,  this seal of bliss ! 
o spite ! 	oh spite ! 
o hell ! 	oh hell ! 
I see you all are bent To set against me for your merriment . 	I see you all are bent To set against me for your entertainment . 
If you were civil and knew courtesy ,  You would not do me thus much injury . 	If you were civil and had any manners ,  You wouldn’t insult me so much like this . 
can you not hate me ,  as I know you do ,  But you must join in souls to mock me too ? 	can’t you just hate me ,  as I know you do ,  Instead of joining together to mock me too ? 
If you were men ,  as men you are in show ,  You would not use a gentle lady so: To vow ,  and swear ,  and superpraise my parts ,  When I am sure you hate me with your hearts . 	If you were men ,  as you are men on the outside ,  You wouldn’t use a gentle lady like this: To vow ,  and swear ,  and super - praise my parts ,  When I am sure you hate me with your hearts . 
you both are rivals ,  and love Hermia; And now both rivals ,  to mock Helena . 	you both are rivals and love Hermia; And now both rivals to mock Helena . 
a trim exploit ,  a manly enterprise ,  To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes With your derision ! 	a really good exploit ,  a manly enterprise ,  To bring up tears in a poor maid's eyes With your insults ! 
none of noble sort Would so offend a virgin ,  and extort A poor soul's patience ,  all to make you sport . 	none of the noble sort Would so offend a virgin and try A poor soul's patience ,  all to make you laugh . 
you are unkind ,  Demetrius; be not so; For you love Hermia . 	you are unkind ,  Demetrius; don’t be like that ,  Because you love Hermia . 
never did mockers waste more idle breath . 	never did mockers waste more idle breath . 
lysander ,  keep thy Hermia; I will none . 	lysander ,  keep your Hermia; I will have none of her . 
If e'er I loved her ,  all that love is gone . 	If I ever loved her ,  all that love is gone . 
my heart to her but as guest - wise so journ'd ,  And now to Helen is it home return'd ,  There to remain . 	my heart journeyed to her only like a guest ,  And now has returned home to Helena ,  There to remain . 
helen ,  it is not so . 	helena ,  it’s not true . 
but why unkindly didst thou leave me so ? 	but why did you leave me so unkindly ? 
why should he stay whom love doth press to go ? 	why should he stay whom love presses to go ? 
what love could press Lysander from my side ? 	what love could press Lysander from my side ? 
lysander's love ,  that would not let him bide ,  Fair Helena ,  who more engilds the night Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light . 	lysander's love ,  that would not let him wait , — Fair Helena , —who makes the night more golden Than all the fiery rays and eyes of light . 
why seek'st thou me ? 	why are you looking for me ? 
could not this make thee know ,  The hate I bare thee made me leave thee so ? 	couldn’t this make you know That the hate I have for you made me leave you like that ? 
you speak not as you think; it cannot be . 	you don’t speak as you think; it cannot be . 
lo ,  she is one of this confederacy ! 	wow ,  she is one of this conspiracy ! 
now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three To fashion this false sport ,  in spite of me . 	now I see that all three have gotten together To design this false joke in spite of me . 
Injurious Hermia ! 	Insulting Hermia ! 
most ungrateful maid ! 	most ungrateful maid ! 
have you conspired ,  have you with these contrived ,  To bait me with this foul derision ? 	have you conspired ,  have you contrived with these men To bait me with this disgusting insult ? 
Is all the counsel that we two have shared ,  The sisters' vows ,  the hours that we have spent ,  When we have chid the hasty - footed time For parting us , —O ,  is all forgot ? 	Is all the conversation that we two have shared ,  The sisters' vows ,  the hours that we have spent ,  When we have scolded the clock For parting us , —Oh ,  is it all forgotten ? 
all school - days' friendship ,  childhood innocence ? 	all school - days' friendship ,  childhood innocence ? 
we ,  Hermia ,  like two artificial gods ,  Have with our needles created both one flower ,  Both on one sampler ,  sitting on one cushion ,  Both warbling of one song ,  both in one key; As if our hands ,  our sides ,  voices ,  and minds ,  Had been incorporate . 	we ,  Hermia ,  like two artificial gods ,  Have created both one flower with our needles ,  Both on one sampler ,  sitting on one cushion ,  Both warbling of one song ,  both in one key; As if our hands ,  our sides ,  voices ,  and minds ,  Had been incorporated into one . 
and will you rent our ancient love asunder ,  To join with men in scorning your poor friend ? 	and will you tear our ancient love apart To join with men in scorning your poor friend ? 
have you not set Lysander ,  as in scorn ,  To follow me and praise my eyes and face ? 	have you not set Lysander ,  as in scorn ,  To follow me ,  and praise my eyes and face ? 
and made your other love ,  Demetrius ,  Who even but now did spurn me with his foot ,  To call me goddess ,  nymph ,  divine ,  and rare ,  Precious ,  celestial ? 	and made your other love ,  Demetrius , — Who even just a minute ago spurned me with his foot , — To call me goddess ,  nymph ,  divine ,  and rare ,  Precious ,  celestial ? 
wherefore speaks he this To her he hates ? 	why does he speak this To me whom he hates ? 
and wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love ,  so rich within his soul ,  And tender me ,  forsooth ,  affection ,  But by your setting on ,  by your consent ? 	and why does Lysander Deny your love ,  so rich within his soul ,  And give me ,  indeed ,  affection ,  Except by your putting them up to it ,  by your consent ? 
what though I be not so in grace as you ,  So hung upon with love ,  so fortunate ,  But miserable most ,  to love unloved ? 	although I may not be as graceful as you ,  So hung upon with love ,  so fortunate ,  But most miserable most ,  to love and still be unloved ? 
this you should pity rather than despise . 	you should pity rather than despise this situation . 
I understand not what you mean by this . 	I don’t understand what you mean by this . 
If you have any pity ,  grace ,  or manners ,  You would not make me such an argument . 	If you have any pity ,  grace ,  or manners ,  You would not make me such an argument . 
stay ,  gentle Helena; hear my excuse; My love ,  my life ,  my soul ,  fair Helena ! 	stay ,  gentle Helena; hear my reason; My love ,  my life ,  my soul ,  fair Helena ! 
o excellent ! 	oh excellent ! 
sweet ,  do not scorn her so . 	sweet ,  don’t scorn her like that . 
If she cannot entreat ,  I can compel . 	If she cannot beg ,  I can order . 
thou canst compel no more than she entreat; Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers Helen ,  I love thee ,  by my life ,  I do; I swear by that which I will lose for thee To prove him false that says I love thee not . 	you can order no more than she can beg; Your threats have no more strength than her weak prayers . — Helena ,  I love you; by my life I do; I swear ,  by that which I will lose for you ,  To prove him a liar that says I don’t love you . 
I say I love thee more than he can do . 	I say I love you more than he does . 
If thou say so ,  withdraw ,  and prove it too . 	If you say so ,  go away ,  and prove it too . 
away ,  you Ethiope ! 	away ,  you black giant ! 
you are a tame man; go ! 	you are a tame man; go ! 
why are you grown so rude ? 	why have you become so rude ? 
what change is this ,  Sweet love ? 	what change is this ,  Sweet love ? 
thy love ! 	your love ! 
out ,  tawny Tartar ,  out ! 	get out ,  tawny barbarian ,  out ! 
out ,  loathed medicine ! 	out ,  loathed medicine ! 
o hated potion ,  hence ! 	hated potion ,  get away ! 
do you not jest ? 	you aren’t joking ? 
yes ,  sooth; and so do you . 	yes ,  truly ,  and so do you . 
demetrius ,  I will keep my word with thee . 	demetrius ,  I will keep my word with you . 
I would I had your bond; for I perceive A weak bond holds you; I'll not trust your word . 	I wish I had your guarantee ,  because I see that A weak bond holds you; I'll not trust your word . 
although I hate her ,  I'll not harm her so . 	although I hate her ,  I'll not harm her like that . 
what ! 	what ! 
can you do me greater harm than hate ? 	can you do me greater harm than hate ? 
hate me ! 	hate me ! 
wherefore ? 	why ? 
o me ! 	oh me ! 
what news ,  my love ? 	what news ,  my love ? 
am not I Hermia ? 	aren’t I Hermia ? 
are not you Lysander ? 	aren’t you Lysander ? 
why then ,  you left me , —O ,  the gods forbid ! — In earnest ,  shall I say ? 	why then ,  you left me , —Oh ,  the gods forbid ! — Seriously ,  shall I say ? 
therefore be out of hope ,  of question ,  of doubt; Be certain ,  nothing truer; 'tis no jest That I do hate thee and love Helena . 	therefore be out of hope ,  of question ,  doubt ,  Be certain ,  nothing truer; it’s no joke That I do hate you and love Helena . 
o me ! 	oh me ! 
you juggler ! 	you juggler ! 
you cankerb lossom ! 	you rotten scoundrel ! 
you thief of love ! 	you thief of love ! 
what ! 	what ! 
have you come by night ,  And stolen my love's heart from him ? 	have you come by night ,  And stolen my love's heart from him ? 
fine ,  i' faith ! 	fine ,  OK ! 
have you no modesty ,  no maiden shame ,  No touch of bashfulness ? 	don’t you have any modesty ,  any maiden shame ,  Any touch of bashfulness ? 
what ! 	what ! 
will you tear Impatient answers from my gentle tongue ? 	will you tear Impatient answers from my gentle tongue ? 
fie ,  fie ! 	shame on you !  ,  shame on you !  ! 
you counterfeit ,  you puppet you ! 	you counterfeit ,  you puppet ,  you ! 
ay ,  that way goes the game . 	oK ,  so that’s the way the game goes . 
how low am I ,  thou painted maypole ? 	how low am I ,  you painted maypole ? 
I am not yet so low But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes . 	I am not yet so low That my nails can’t reach yours eyes . 
I pray you ,  though you mock me ,  gentlemen ,  Let her not hurt me . 	I beg you ,  although you mock me ,  gentlemen ,  Don’t let her hurt me . 
I was never curst; I have no gift at all in shrewishness; I am a right maid for my cowardice; Let her not strike me . 	I was never cursed; I have no gift at all in being a fighter; I am a right maid for my cowardice; Don’t let her strike me . 
you perhaps may think ,  Because she is something lower than myself ,  That I can match her . 	you may think ,  perhaps ,  Because she is something lower than myself ,  That I can match her movements . 
good Hermia ,  do not be so bitter with me . 	good Hermia ,  don’t be so angry with me . 
I evermore did love you ,  Hermia ,  Did ever keep your counsels ,  never wrong'd you; Save that ,  in love unto Demetrius ,  I told him of your stealth unto this wood . 	I always loved you ,  Hermia; Always kept your counsels; never wronged you; Except that ,  because of my love for Demetrius ,  I told him of your running away into this forest . 
let me go . 	let me go . 
you see how simple and how fond I am . 	you see how simple and how in love I am . 
why ,  get you gone ! 	why ,  get going . 
who is't that hinders you ? 	who’s stopping you ? 
a foolish heart that I leave here behind . 	a foolish heart that I’m leaving behind here . 
what ! 	what ! 
with Lysander ? 	with Lysander ? 
with Demetrius . 	with Demetrius . 
be not afraid; she shall not harm thee ,  Helena . 	don’t be afraid; she shall not harm you ,  Helena . 
no ,  sir ,  she shall not ,  though you take her part . 	no ,  sir ,  she shall not ,  although you take her side . 
little’ again ! 	little again ! 
let me come to her . 	let me get her . 
get you gone ,  you dwarf; You minimus ,  of hind'ring knot - grass made; You bead ,  you acorn . 	get going ,  you dwarf; You zero ,  made of scraps of grass; You bead ,  you acorn . 
you are too officious In her behalf that scorns your services . 	you are too over - zealous On her behalf that rejects your services . 
follow ! 	follow ! 
nay ,  I'll go with thee ,  cheek by jowl . 	no ,  I'll go with you ,  cheek by jowl . 
you ,  mistress ,  all this coil is 'long of you . 	you ,  mistress ,  all this trouble is because of you . 
nay ,  go not back . 	no ,  don’t go back . 
I will not trust you ,  I; Nor longer stay in your curst company . 	I will not trust you ,  I won’t; And I’ll stay in your cursed company no longer . 
your hands than mine are quicker for a fray; My legs are longer though ,  to run away . 	your hands are quicker than mine for a fight; My legs are longer ,  though ,  to run away . 
I am amazed ,  and know not what to say . 	I am amazed ,  and don’t know what to say . 
this is thy negligence . 	this is your negligence . 
still thou mistakest ,  Or else committ'st thy knaveries wilfully . 	either you are really mistaken ,  Or you commit these errors willfully . 
believe me ,  king of shadows ,  I mistook . 	believe me ,  king of shadows ,  I was really mistaken . 
did not you tell me I should know the man By the Athenian garments he had on ? 	didn’t you tell me I should know the man By the Athenian garments he had on ? 
and so far blameless proves my enterprise ,  That I have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes; And so far am I glad it so did sort ,  As this their jangling I esteem a sport . 	and so far I am glad it worked out this way ,  Because I am really enjoying the show . 
thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight . 	do you see that these lovers are looking for a place to fight ? 
hie therefore ,  Robin ,  overcast the night; The starry welkin cover thou anon With drooping fog as black as Acheron ,  And lead these testy rivals so astray As one come not within another's way . 	get going ,  then ,  Robin ,  make the night darker; Cover the stars in the sky With drooping fog ,  as black as Acheron ,  And lead these testy rivals so astray That they will not come within another's way . 
like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue ,  Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong; And sometime rail thou like Demetrius; And from each other look thou lead them thus ,  Till o'er their brows death - counterfeiting sleep With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep . 	sometimes ,  imitate Lysander’s voice ,  To stir up Demetrius’ anger; And sometimes ,  sound like Demetrius; And that way you can lead them from each other ,  Until sleep imitating death creeps over their eyebrows With leaden legs and batty wings . 
then crush this herb into Lysander's eye; Whose liquor hath this virtuous property ,  To take from thence all error with his might And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight . 	then crush this herb into Lysander's eye; Its juice has the virtuous property Of removing all error from his eyes And will make his eyeballs roll with correct sight . 
when they next wake ,  all this derision Shall seem a dream and fruitless vision; And back to Athens shall the lovers wend ,  With league whose date till death shall never end . 	when they next wake up ,  all this conflict Shall seem to be a dream and a worthless vision; And back to Athens the lovers shall go With happiness and agreement that will never end . 
whiles I in this affair do thee employ ,  I'll to my queen ,  and beg her Indian boy; And then I will her charmed eye release From monster's view ,  and all things shall be peace . 	while I use you to solve this affair ,  I'll go to my queen ,  and beg the Indian boy from her; And then I will release her charmed eye So that she will see the monster ,  and all things shall be at peace . 
my fairy lord ,  this must be done with haste ,  For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast; And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger ,  At whose approach ,  ghosts ,  wandering here and there ,  Troop home to churchyards . 	my fairy lord ,  this must be done very quickly ,  Because night is quickly coming to an end; And over there is the first hint of morning sunlight ,  Which ,  when it is seen by ghosts wandering here and there ,  They all troop home to the graveyards . 
up and down ,  up and down ,  I will lead them up and down . 	up and down ,  up and down; I will lead them up and down . 
I am fear'd in field and town . 	the field and town are afraid of me . 
goblin ,  lead them up and down . 	goblin ,  lead them up and down . 
here comes one . 	here comes one . 
where art thou ,  proud Demetrius ? 	where are you ,  proud Demetrius ? 
speak thou now . 	speak now . 
here ,  villain ,  drawn and ready . 	here ,  villain ,  drawn and ready . 
where art thou ? 	where are you ? 
I will be with thee straight . 	I’ll be right with you . 
follow me ,  then ,  To plainer ground . 	follow me ,  then ,  To a clear place . 
thou runaway ,  thou coward ,  art thou fled ? 	you runaway ,  you coward ,  have you run away ? 
speak ! 	speak . 
In some bush ? 	are you hiding in some bush ? 
where dost thou hide thy head ? 	where are you ? 
thou coward ,  art thou bragging to the stars ,  Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars ,  And wilt not come ? 	you coward ,  are you bragging to the stars ,  Telling the bushes that you look for wars ,  But will not fight one ? 
come ,  recreant ,  come ,  thou child; I'll whip thee with a rod . 	come on ,  lazy loafer; come on ,  you child; I'll whip you with a rod . 
he is defiled That draws a sword on thee . 	If someone else kills you ,  He will be cursed . 
yea ,  art thou there ? 	hey ,  are you there ? 
follow my voice; we'll try no manhood here . 	follow my voice; we won’t test your manhood here . 
he goes before me ,  and still dares me on; When I come where he calls ,  then he is gone . 	he went before me ,  and still dares me to fight; When I get to where he’s calling from ,  he’s gone . 
come ,  thou gentle day . 	welcome ,  gentle day ! 
for if but once thou show me thy grey light ,  I'll find Demetrius ,  and revenge this spite . 	because ,  even if you only shine your grey light one time ,  I'll find Demetrius ,  and revenge this spite . 
ho ,  ho ,  ho ! 	ho ,  ho ,  ho ,  ho ! 
coward ,  why com'st thou not ? 	coward ,  why don’t you come ? 
abide me ,  if thou darest; for well I wot Thou runnest before me ,  shifting every place ,  And darest not stand ,  nor look me in the face . 	wait for me ,  if you dare; Because I know well That you are running before me ,  moving from place to place ,  Not daring to stand still or look me in the face . 
where art thou now ? 	where are you ? 
come hither; I am here . 	come over here; I am here . 
nay ,  then ,  thou mock'st me . 	no ,  then ,  you are making fun of me . 
o weary night ,  O long and tedious night ,  Abate thy hours ! 	oh weary night ,  Oh long and tedious night ,  Cut your hours short ! 
yet but three ? 	only three ? 
come one more; Two of both kinds makes up four . 	come on ,  one more; Two boys and two girls makes up four . 
never so weary ,  never so in woe ,  Bedabbled with the dew ,  and torn with briers ,  I can no further crawl ,  no further go; My legs can keep no pace with my desires . 	I have never been so weary ,  never so sad ,  Wet from the dew ,  and torn with briers; I can’t crawl any further . 
here will I rest me till the break of day . 	here I’ll rest until daybreak . 
heavens shield Lysander ,  if they mean a fray ! 	heavens shield Lysander ,  if they really mean to fight ! 
come ,  sit thee down upon this flowery bed ,  While I thy amiable cheeks do coy ,  And stick musk - roses in thy sleek smooth head ,  And kiss thy fair large ears ,  my gentle joy . 	come ,  sit down on this flowery bed ,  While I play with your amiable cheeks ,  And stick musk - roses in your sleek smooth head ,  And kiss your fair large ears ,  my gentle joy . 
where's Peaseblossom ? 	where's Peasblossom ? 
ready . 	ready . 
ready . 	ready . 
monsieur Cobweb; good monsieur ,  get you your weapons in your hand and kill me a red - hipped humble - bee on the top of a thistle; and ,  good monsieur ,  bring me the honey - bag . 	mr .  Cobweb; good monsieur ,  get all your weapons in your hand and kill me a red - hipped humble - bee on the top of a thistle; and ,  good monsieur ,  bring me his honey - bag . 
ready . 	ready . 
give me your neaf ,  Monsieur Mustardseed . 	give me your hand ,  Mr .  Mustardseed . 
pray you ,  leave your courtesy ,  good monsieur . 	I beg you ,  stop making curtsies ,  good sir . 
what's your will ? 	what can I do for you ? 
nothing ,  good monsieur ,  but to help Cavalery Cobweb to scratch . 	nothing ,  good sir ,  but for you to help Mr .  Cobweb scratch my head . 
I must to the barber's ,  monsieur; for methinks I am marvellous hairy about the face; and I am such a tender ass ,  if my hair do but tickle me I must scratch . 	I have to get to the barber's ,  sir ,  because I think I have an awful lot of hair on my face ,  and I am such a sensitive donkey ,  that I must scratch even if my hair only tickles me a little . 
what ,  wilt thou hear some music ,  my sweet love ? 	will you hear some music ,  my sweet love ? 
I have a reasonable good ear in music . 	I have a reasonable good musical ear; let’s sing and dance . 
or say ,  sweet love ,  what thou desirest to eat . 	or say ,  sweet love ,  what you desire to eat . 
truly ,  a peck of provender; I could munch your good dry oats . 	truly ,  a peck of dry food; I could munch your good dry oats . 
methinks I have a great desire to a bottle of hay . 	I think I have a great desire to a bottle of hay . 
good hay ,  sweet hay ,  hath no fellow . 	good hay ,  sweet hay ,  has no equal . 
I have a venturous fairy that shall seek The squirrel's hoard ,  and fetch thee new nuts . 	I have an adventurous fairy that shall seek What the squirrel has been hoarding ,  and get you new nuts . 
I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas . 	I’d rather have a handful or two of dried peas . 
but ,  I pray you ,  let none of your people stir me; I have an exposition of sleep come upon me . 	but ,  I beg you ,  don’t let any of your people wake me up; I feel a deep sleep coming . 
sleep thou ,  and I will wind thee in my arms . 	you sleep ,  and I will hold you in my arms . 
fairies ,  be gone ,  and be all ways away . 	fairies ,  be gone ,  and stay away . 
so doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle Gently entwist; the female ivy so Enrings the barky fingers of the elm . 	I will put my arms around you just as the woodbine twists around the sweet honeysuckle , — like the female ivy Winds around the branches of the elm . 
o ,  how I love thee ! 	oh ,  how I love you ! 
how I dote on thee ! 	how I adore on you ! 
welcome ,  good Robin . 	welcome ,  good Robin . 
see'st thou this sweet sight ? 	do you see this sweet sight ? 
for she his hairy temples then had rounded With coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers; And that same dew which sometime on the buds Was wont to swell ,  like round and orient pearls Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes ,  Like tears ,  that did their own disgrace bewail . 	she had put a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers All around his hairy face ,  And that same dew ,  which sometimes was accustomed To swell like round and orient pearls on the buds ,  Was now within the pretty flowers' eyes ,  Like tears that were crying about their own sins . 
when I had at my pleasure taunted her ,  And she in mild terms begg'd my patience ,  I then did ask of her her changeling child; Which straight she gave me ,  and her fairy sent To bear him to my bower in fairy land . 	when ,  at my pleasure ,  I had teased her ,  And she ,  calmly ,  begged my patience ,  I asked her for the Indian child ,  Which she gave me Right away ,  and sent her fairy To carry him to my private place in fairy - land . 
and now I have the boy ,  I will undo This hateful imperfection of her eyes . 	and now that I have the boy ,  I will undo This hateful spell that I have put on her eyes . 
and ,  gentle Puck ,  take this transformed scalp From off the head of this Athenian swain ,  That he awaking when the other do May all to Athens back again repair ,  And think no more of this night's accidents But as the fierce vexation of a dream . 	and ,  gentle Puck ,  take this donkey head Off the head of this Athenian lover ,  That when he wakes when the others do ,  All of them may go back to Athens ,  Thinking no more about tonight’s events than That they were parts of a dream . 
but first I will release the fairy queen . 	but first ,  I will release the fairy queen . 
be as thou wast wont to be; See as thou was wont to see . 	be as you are accustomed to being; See as you are accustomed to seeing . 
dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower Hath such force and blessed power . 	the bud from the Moon - goddess’ plant Has such force and blessed power over Cupid's flower . 
now ,  my Titania; wake you ,  my sweet queen . 	now ,  my Titania ,  wake up ,  my sweet queen . 
my Oberon ! 	my Oberon ! 
what visions have I seen ! 	what visions have I seen ! 
methought I was enamour'd of an ass . 	I thought I was in love with a donkey . 
there lies your love . 	your  “ love ”  is lying there . 
how came these things to pass ? 	how did all this happen ? 
robin ,  take off this head . 	quiet for awhile . —Robin ,  take off this head . 
titania ,  music call; and strike more dead Than common sleep of all these five the sense . 	titania ,  call for music ,  and strike the senses of all these five so that they seem more dead than sleeping . 
now when thou wakest with thine own fool's eyes peep . 	now when you awake ,  see with yours own fool's eyes . 
sound ,  music . 	sound ,  music . 
come ,  my Queen ,  take hands with me ,  And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be . 	come ,  my queen ,  hold hands with me ,  And rock the ground where these sleepers are . 
now thou and I are new in amity ,  And will tomorrow midnight solemnly Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly ,  And bless it to all fair prosperity . 	now you and I have a new friendship ,  And will solemnly dance In Duke Theseus' house triumphantly ,  Tomorrow at midnight And bless it for all fair prosperity . 
there shall the pairs of faithful lovers be Wedded ,  with Theseus ,  all in jollity . 	there the pairs of faithful lovers shall be Married ,  with Theseus ,  all in jollity . 
fairy king ,  attend and mark; I do hear the morning lark . 	fairy king ,  see and listen; I do hear the morning lark . 
then ,  my Queen ,  in silence sad ,  Trip we after night's shade . 	then ,  my queen ,  in sad silence ,  We dance after night's darkness . 
we the globe can compass soon ,  Swifter than the wandering moon . 	we go around the globe ,  Swifter than the wandering moon . 
come ,  my lord; and in our flight ,  Tell me how it came this night That I sleeping here was found With these mortals on the ground . 	come ,  my lord; and ,  as we fly ,  Tell me how it happened this night That I was found here sleeping On the ground with these mortals . 
I was with Hercules and Cadmus once ,  When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear With hounds of Sparta; never did I hear Such gallant chiding ,  for ,  besides the groves ,  The skies ,  the fountains ,  every region near Seem'd all one mutual cry . 	I never heard Such gallant scolding; because ,  besides the groves ,  The skies ,  the fountains ,  every region near Seemed to have one mutual cry . 
I never heard So musical a discord ,  such sweet thunder . 	I never heard So musical a noise ,  such sweet thunder . 
my hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind ,  So flew'd ,  so sanded; and their heads are hung With ears that sweep away the morning dew; Crook - knee'd and dew - lapp'd like Thessalian bulls; Slow in pursuit ,  but match'd in mouth like bells ,  Each under each . 	my hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind ,  So jawed ,  so sandy - colored ,  and their heads are hung With ears that sweep along the ground; Crook - kneed and dew - covered like Thessaly bulls; Slow in pursuit ,  but matched in their barks like bells ,  Each one under the other . 
a cry more tuneable Was never holla'd to ,  nor cheer'd with horn ,  In Crete ,  in Sparta ,  nor in Thessaly . 	a cry more tuneable Was never called to ,  or cheered with a horn ,  In Crete ,  in Sparta ,  or in Thessaly . 
my lord ,  this is my daughter here asleep ,  And this Lysander ,  this Demetrius is ,  This Helena ,  old Nedar's Helena . 	my lord ,  this is my daughter here asleep; And this Lysander; this Demetrius is; This Helena ,  old Nedar's Helena . 
I wonder of their being here together . 	I wonder why they are here together . 
It is ,  my lord . 	It is ,  my lord . 
go ,  bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns . 	go ,  bid the huntsmen wake them up by blowing the horns . 
good - morrow ,  friends . 	good morning ,  friends . 
saint Valentine is past; Begin these wood - birds but to couple now ? 	saint Valentine’s Day is past; Do these forest - birds begin only now to make a couple ? 
pardon ,  my lord . 	pardon ,  my lord . 
I pray you all ,  stand up . 	I beg you all ,  stand up . 
I know you two are rival enemies; How comes this gentle concord in the world That hatred is so far from jealousy To sleep by hate ,  and fear no enmity ? 	I know you two are rival enemies; How does this gentle concord in the world come about ,  That hatred is so far from jealousy That you can sleep without fear ? 
our intent Was to be gone from Athens ,  where we might ,  Without the peril of the Athenian law . 	our intention Was to be gone from Athens ,  and to get to a place Where we might be together without the Punishment of the Athenian law . 
my lord ,  fair Helen told me of their stealth ,  Of this their purpose hither to this wood; And I in fury hither followed them ,  Fair Helena in fancy following me . 	my lord ,  fair Helena told me of their running away ,  And why they ran here to this forest; And in fury ,  I followed them here ,  Fair Helena ,  in love ,  following me . 
to her ,  my lord ,  Was I betroth'd ere I saw Hermia . 	I was engaged to her ,  my lord ,  Before I saw Hermia . 
but ,  like a sickness ,  did I loathe this food; But ,  as in health ,  come to my natural taste ,  Now I do wish it ,  love it ,  long for it ,  And will for evermore be true to it . 	but ,  like a sickness ,  I hated the taste this food; But ,  now healthy ,  my natural tastes restored ,  Now I wish it ,  love it ,  long for it ,  And will for evermore be true to it . 
fair lovers ,  you are fortunately met; Of this discourse we more will hear anon . 	fair lovers ,  it’s good that we found you here . 
egeus ,  I will overbear your will; For in the temple ,  by and by ,  with us These couples shall eternally be knit . 	we will hear more of this story later . — Egeus ,  I will override your demands; These couples shall eternally be knit By and by with us in the temple . 
these things seem small and undistinguishable ,  Like far - off mountains turned into clouds . 	these things seem small and murky ,  Like far - off mountain tops turned into clouds . 
methinks I see these things with parted eye ,  When every thing seems double . 	I think I see these things with unfocused eyes ,  As when every thing seems double . 
yea ,  and my father . 	yes ,  and my father . 
and Hippolyta . 	and Hippolyta . 
and he did bid us follow to the temple . 	and he did bid us to follow him to the temple ,  didn’t he ? 
wakes) When my cue comes ,  call me ,  and I will answer . 	when my cue comes ,  call me ,  and I will answer . 
my next is ‘Most fair Pyramus . ’ Heigh - ho ! 	my next is 'Most fair Pyramus . 
peter Quince ! 	heigh - ho ! —Peter Quince ! 
flute ,  the bellows - mender ! 	flute ,  the bellows - mender ! 
snout ,  the tinker ! 	snout ,  the tinker ! 
starveling ! 	starveling ! 
god's my life ,  stolen hence ,  and left me asleep ! 	oh my God ,  they have run away and left me asleep ! 
I have had a most rare vision . 	I have had a most rare vision . 
I have had a dream ,  past the wit of man to say what dream it was . 	I have had a dream— it’s beyond the smartest man to say what kind of dream it was . —Man is only a donkey if he goes about to telling this dream . 
man is but an ass if he go about to expound this Methought I was—there is no man can tell what dream . 	I thought I was—there is no man can tell what . 
methought I was ,  and methought I had ,  but man is but a patched fool ,  if he will offer to say what methought I had . 	I thought I was ,  and I thought I had , —but a man is only a mended fool ,  if he will offer to say what I thought I had . 
the eye of man hath not heard ,  the ear of man hath not seen ,  man's hand is not able to taste ,  his tongue to conceive ,  nor his heart to report ,  what my dream was . 	the eye of man has not heard ,  the ear of man has not seen; man's hand is not able to taste ,  his tongue to conceive ,  or his heart to report ,  what my dream was . 
I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of this dream . 	I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of this dream . 
It shall be call'd ‘Bottom's Dream , ’ because it hath no bottom; and I will sing it in the latter end of a play ,  before the Duke . 	It shall be called Bottom's Dream ,  because it has no bottom; and I will sing it in the latter end of a play ,  before the duke . 
peradventure ,  to make it the more gracious ,  I shall sing it at her death . 	perhaps ,  to make it the more gracious ,  I shall sing it at her death . 
have you sent to Bottom's house ? 	have you sent someone to Bottom's house ? 
Is he come home yet ? 	has he come home yet ? 
he cannot be heard of . 	no one has heard anything about him . 
out of doubt he is transported . 	no doubt ,  he’s kidnapped . 
If he come not ,  then the play is marred; it goes not forward ,  doth it ? 	If he doesn’t come ,  then the play is incomplete; it doesn’t go on ,  does it ? 
It is not possible . 	It’s not possible . 
you have not a man in all Athens able to discharge Pyramus but he . 	there’s not a man in all Athens able to play Pyramus but he . 
no; he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in Athens . 	no ,  he has simply the best wit of any working man in Athens . 
you must say ‘paragon . ’ A paramour is—God bless us ! —A thing of naught . 	you must say  “ paragon .  ”  A  “ paramour ”  is ,  God bless us ,  a thing of nothing . 
masters ,  the Duke is coming from the temple; and there is two or three lords and ladies more married . 	sirs ,  the duke is coming from the temple; and there are two or three lords and ladies more married . 
If our sport had gone forward ,  we had all been made men . 	If our play had gone forward ,  we would’ve all been made men . 
o sweet bully Bottom ! 	oh sweet bully Bottom ! 
he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in Pyramus ,  or nothing . 	six cents a - day in Pyramus ,  or nothing . 
where are these lads ? 	where are these lads ? 
where are these hearts ? 	where are these hearts ? 
o most courageous day ! 	bottom ! —Oh most courageous day ! 
o most happy hour ! 	oh most happy hour ! 
I will tell you everything ,  right as it fell out . 	I will tell you everything ,  just as it happened . 
let us hear ,  sweet Bottom . 	let’s hear it ,  sweet Bottom . 
not a word of me . 	not a word from me . 
all that I will tell you is ,  that the Duke hath dined . 	all that I will tell you is ,  that the duke has dined . 
get your apparel together; good strings to your beards ,  new ribbons to your pumps; meet presently at the palace; every man look o'er his part; for the short and the long is ,  our play is preferred . 	get your costumes together; good strings to your beards ,  new ribbons to your shoes; meet presently at the palace; every man look over his part; for the short and the long of it is ,  they want to see our play . 
In any case ,  let Thisbe have clean linen; and let not him that plays the lion pare his nails ,  for they shall hang out for the lion's claws . 	In any case ,  let Thisbe have clean linen; and don’t let him that plays the lion cut his nails ,  because they shall hang out for the lion's claws . 
and ,  most dear actors ,  eat no onions nor garlic ,  for we are to utter sweet breath; and I do not doubt but to hear them say it is a sweet comedy . 	and ,  most dear actors ,  don’t eat any onions nor garlic ,  because we are to utter our lines with sweet breath; And I don’t doubt that we will hear them say it is a sweet comedy . 
no more words . 	no more words . 
tis strange ,  my Theseus ,  that these lovers speak of . 	It’s strange ,  my Theseus ,  the story that these lovers speak of . 
more strange than true . 	more strange than true . 
I never may believe These antique fables ,  nor these fairy toys . 	I never may believe These antique fables ,  or these fairy toys . 
lovers and madmen have such seething brains ,  Such shaping fantasies ,  that apprehend More than cool reason ever comprehends . 	lovers and madmen have such busy brains ,  Such ability to shape fantasies ,  that they catch More than cool reason ever understands . 
the lunatic ,  the lover ,  and the poet ,  Are of imagination all compact . 	the lunatic ,  the lover ,  and the poet Are all compact in their imagination . 
one sees more devils than vast hell can hold; That is the madman . 	one sees more devils than vast hell can hold; That is the madman . 
the lover ,  all as frantic ,  Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt . 	the lover ,  just as crazy ,  Sees Helen of Troy's beauty in an Egyptian . 
the poet's eye ,  in a fine frenzy rolling ,  Doth glance from heaven to earth ,  from earth to heaven; And as imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown ,  the poet's pen Turns them to shapes ,  and gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name . 	the poet's eye ,  rolling in a fine frenzy ,  Glances from heaven to earth ,  from earth to heaven; And as imagination sends out The forms of things unknown ,  the poet's pen Turns them to shapes ,  and gives a local place and a name To airy nothing . 
such tricks hath strong imagination That ,  if it would but apprehend some joy ,  It comprehends some bringer of that joy; Or in the night ,  imagining some fear ,  How easy is a bush supposed a bear ? 	such tricks have strong imagination ,  That ,  if it would only catch some joy ,  It understands some bringer of that joy; Or in the night ,  imagining some fear ,  How easy is a bush thought to be a bear ? 
but all the story of the night told over ,  And all their minds transfigured so together ,  More witnesseth than fancy's images ,  And grows to something of great constancy ,  But howsoever strange and admirable . 	but the whole story of the night told over ,  And all their minds changed all at the same time ,  Shows more witnesses than just images of the mind ,  And grows to something of great lasting; But ,  nevertheless ,  strange and admirable . 
here come the lovers ,  full of joy and mirth . 	here come the lovers ,  full of joy and mirth . — Joy ,  gentle friends ! 
joy ,  gentle friends ,  joy and fresh days of love Accompany your hearts ! 	joy and fresh days of love Accompany your hearts ! 
more than to us Wait in your royal walks ,  your board ,  your bed ! 	more than you wish for us Waits in your royal walks ,  your board ,  your bed ! 
come now; what masques ,  what dances shall we have ,  To wear away this long age of three hours Between our after - supper and bed - time ? 	come now; what plays ,  what dances shall we have ,  To pass the three hours Between our after - supper and bed - time ? 
where is our usual manager of mirth ? 	where is our usual manager of mirth ? 
what revels are in hand ? 	what revels are in store ? 
Is there no play To ease the anguish of a torturing hour ? 	Is there no play To ease the anguish of a torturing hour ? 
call Philostrate . 	call Philostrate . 
say ,  what abridgment have you for this evening ? 	say ,  what entertainment do you have for this evening ? 
what masque ? 	what play ? 
what music ? 	what music ? 
how shall we beguile The lazy time ,  if not with some delight ? 	how shall we spend The lazy time ,  if not with some delight ? 
there is a brief how many sports are ripe; Make choice of which your Highness will see first . 	there is a brief list of how many events there are; Make choice of which your highness will see first . 
tedious and brief ! 	tedious and brief ! 
that is hot ice and wondrous strange snow . 	that’s like hot ice and wondrous strange snow . 
how shall we find the concord of this discord ? 	how shall we find the concord of this discord ? 
a play there is ,  my lord ,  some ten words long ,  Which is as brief as I have known a play; But by ten words ,  my lord ,  it is too long ,  Which makes it tedious; for in all the play There is not one word apt ,  one player fitted . 	a play there is ,  my lord ,  some ten words long ,  Which is as brief as I have known a play; But by ten words ,  my lord ,  it is too long ,  Which makes it tedious ,  because ,  in all the play There is not one appropriate word ,  one player a good actor . 
what are they that do play it ? 	who are they that do play it ? 
hard - handed men that work in Athens here ,  Which never labour'd in their minds till now; And now have toil'd their unbreathed memories With this same play against your nuptial . 	hard working men that work here in Athens ,  Who never worked in their minds until now ,  And now they have toiled their bad memories To do this play in honor of your wedding . 
and we will hear it . 	and we’ll hear it . 
no ,  my noble lord ,  It is not for you . 	no ,  my noble lord ,  It is not for you . 
I have heard it over ,  And it is nothing ,  nothing in the world; Unless you can find sport in their intents ,  Extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain ,  To do you service . 	I’ve heard ,  And it is nothing ,  nothing in the world ,  Unless you can laugh at their intentions ,  Extremely stretched and done with cruel pain ,  To do you service . 
I will hear that play; For never anything can be amiss When simpleness and duty tender it . 	I will hear that play ,  Because nothing can ever be wrong When simpleness and duty give it freely . 
I love not to see wretchedness o'er - charged ,  And duty in his service perishing . 	I don’t like to see misery over - played ,  And duty dying in his service . 
why ,  gentle sweet ,  you shall see no such thing . 	why ,  gentle sweet ,  you shall see no such thing . 
he says they can do nothing in this kind . 	he says they can’t do anything like this . 
the kinder we ,  to give them thanks for nothing . 	that makes us kinder ,  to give them thanks for nothing . 
our sport shall be to take what they mistake; And what poor duty cannot do ,  noble respect Takes it in might ,  not merit . 	and what poor duty can’t do ,  Noble respect takes it in force ,  not merit . 
where I have come ,  great clerks have purposed To greet me with premeditated welcomes; Where I have seen them shiver and look pale ,  Make periods in the midst of sentences ,  Throttle their practised accent in their fears ,  And ,  in conclusion ,  dumbly have broke off ,  Not paying me a welcome . 	In places I go to ,  great clerks have purposed To greet me with prepared welcomes; I have seen them shiver and look pale ,  Make full stops in the middle of sentences ,  Mess up their practiced speeches in their fears ,  And ,  in conclusion ,  stop all together ,  dumbstruck ,  Not paying me a welcome . 
trust me ,  sweet ,  Out of this silence yet I picked a welcome; And in the modesty of fearful duty I read as much as from the rattling tongue Of saucy and audacious eloquence . 	trust me ,  sweet ,  Out of this silence ,  I still picked out a welcome; And in the modesty of fearful duty ,  I can understand as much as if it were from the rattling tongue Of saucy and audacious eloquence . 
love ,  therefore ,  and tongue - tied simplicity In least speak most to my capacity . 	love ,  therefore ,  and tongue - tied simplicity Speaking the least means most to me . 
so please your Grace ,  the Prologue is address'd . 	so please your grace ,  the prologue is next . 
let him approach . 	let him approach . 
If we offend ,  it is with our good will . 	If we offend you ,  it is with our good will . 
that you should think ,  we come not to offend ,  But with good will . 	but you should think that we don’t come to offend ,  But with good will . 
to show our simple skill ,  That is the true beginning of our end . 	to show our simple skill ,  That is the true beginning of our end . 
consider then ,  we come but in despite . 	consider then that we come but in scorn . 
we do not come ,  as minding to content you ,  Our true intent is . 	we don’t come ,  as we mean to content you ,  Is our true intent . 
all for your delight We are not here . 	all for your delight We are not here . 
he hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows not the stop . 	he has ridden his prologue like a rough colt . 
Indeed he hath play'd on this prologue like a child on a recorder , —a sound ,  but not in government . 	Indeed he has played on this prologue like a child on a recorder ,  a sound ,  but not in order . 
his speech was like a tangled chain; nothing impaired ,  but all disordered . 	his speech was like a tangled chain; nothing impaired ,  but all disordered . 
who is next ? 	who’s next ? 
gentles ,  perchance you wonder at this show; But wonder on ,  till truth make all things plain . 	gentles ,  perhaps you wonder at this show; But wonder on until the truth makes all things clear . 
this man is Pyramus ,  if you would know; This beauteous lady Thisbe is certain . 	this man is Pyramus ,  if you want to know; This beauteous lady is certainly Thisbe . 
this man ,  with lanthorn ,  dog ,  and bush of thorn ,  Presenteth Moonshine; for ,  if you will know ,  By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn To meet at Ninus' tomb ,  there ,  there to woo . 	this man ,  with lantern ,  dog ,  and thorn bush ,  Represents Moonshine ,  because ,  if you want to know ,  These lovers think it’s no shame to meet at Ninus' tomb By moonshine ,  there ,  there to court each other . 
this grisly beast ,  which Lion hight by name ,  The trusty Thisbe ,  coming first by night ,  Did scare away ,  or rather did affright; And as she fled ,  her mantle she did fall; Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain . 	this grisly beast ,  which known by name Lion ,  Scared away or rather frightened the trusty Thisbe ,  Coming first to the place by night; And as she fled ,  she dropped her shawl ,  Which vile Lion stained with his bloody mouth . 
for all the rest ,  Let Lion ,  Moonshine ,  Wall ,  and lovers twain ,  At large discourse while here they do remain . 	for all the rest ,  Let Lion ,  Moonshine ,  Wall ,  and the two lovers ,  Tell you while they stay here . 
I wonder if the lion be to speak . 	I wonder if the lion is going to speak . 
would you desire lime and hair to speak better ? 	do you need lime and hair to speak better ? 
It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard discourse ,  my lord . 	It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard speak ,  my lord . 
pyramus draws near the wall; silence . 	pyramus draws near the wall; silence . 
o grim - look'd night ! 	oh grim - looked night ! 
o night with hue so black ! 	oh night with hue so black ! 
o night ,  which ever art when day is not ! 	oh night ,  which ever is when day is not ! 
thanks ,  courteous wall . 	thanks ,  courteous wall . 
jove shield thee well for this ! 	jove protect you well for this ! 
but what see I ? 	but what see what see I ? 
no Thisbe do I see . 	I don’t see Thisbe . 
o wicked wall ,  through whom I see no bliss ,  Curs'd he thy stones for thus deceiving me ! 	oh wicked wall ,  through whom I see no bliss ,  Cursed be your stones for deceiving me like this ! 
the wall ,  methinks ,  being sensible ,  should curse again . 	the wall ,  I think ,  being sensible ,  should curse again . 
no ,  in truth ,  sir ,  he should not . 	no ,  in truth ,  sir ,  he should not . 
deceiving me is Thisbe's cue . 	deceiving me ”  is Thisbe's cue . 
she is to enter now ,  and I am to spy her through the wall . 	she is to enter now ,  and I am to spy her through the wall . 
you shall see it will fall pat as I told you; yonder she comes . 	you shall see it will fall right just as I told you . —she comes From over there . 
o wall ,  full often hast thou heard my moans ,  For parting my fair Pyramus and me ! 	oh wall ,  you have heard my moans very often ,  For separating my fair Pyramus and me . 
I see a voice; now will I to the chink ,  To spy an I can hear my Thisbe's face . 	I see a voice; now I’ll go to the chink ,  To spy if I can hear my Thisbe's face . 
thisbe ! 	thisbe ! 
my love ! 	my love ! 
thou art my love ,  I think . 	you are my love ,  I think . 
think what thou wilt ,  I am thy lover's grace; And like Limander am I trusty still . 	think what you will ,  I am your lover's grace; And like Limander ,  I am still trusty . 
and I like Helen ,  till the Fates me kill . 	and I’m like Helena ,  until the fates kill me . 
not Shafalus to Procrus was so true . 	not Shafalus to Procrus was so true . 
as Shafalus to Procrus ,  I to you . 	as Shafalus to Procrus ,  I am to you . 
o ,  kiss me through the hole of this vile wall . 	oh ,  kiss me through the hole of this vile wall . 
I kiss the wall's hole ,  not your lips at all . 	I kiss the wall's hole ,  not your lips at all . 
wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway ? 	will you meet me straightway at Ninny's tomb ? 
tide life ,  'tide death ,  I come without delay . 	fighting life ,  fighting death ,  I come without delay . 
thus have I ,  wall ,  my part discharged so; And ,  being done ,  thus Wall away doth go . 	so I ,  wall ,  have discharged my part; And ,  being done ,  Wall goes away like this . 
now is the mural down between the two neighbors . 	now is the wall down between the two neighbors . 
no remedy ,  my lord ,  when walls are so wilful to hear without warning . 	no remedy ,  my lord ,  when walls are so willful to hear without warning . 
this is the silliest stuff that ever I heard . 	this is the silliest stuff that ever I heard . 
the best in this kind are but shadows; and the worst are no worse ,  if imagination amend them . 	the best plays are only shadows ,  and the worst are no worse ,  if imagination can fill in the gaps . 
It must be your imagination then ,  and not theirs . 	It must be your imagination then ,  and not theirs . 
If we imagine no worse of them than they of themselves ,  they may pass for excellent men . 	If we imagine no worse of them than they imagine of themselves ,  they may pass for excellent men . 
here come two noble beasts in ,  a man and a lion . 	here come two noble beasts ,  a moon and a lion . 
you ,  ladies ,  you ,  whose gentle hearts do fear The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor ,  May now ,  perchance ,  both quake and tremble here ,  When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar . 	you ,  ladies ,  you ,  whose gentle hearts fear The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor ,  May now ,  perhaps ,  both quake and tremble here ,  When a rough lion roars in wildest rage . 
a very gentle beast ,  and of a good conscience . 	a very gentle beast ,  and of a good conscience . 
the very best at a beast ,  my lord ,  that e'er I saw . 	the very best at a beast ,  my lord ,  that ever I saw . 
this lion is a very fox for his valour . 	this lion is a very fox for his courage . 
true; and a goose for his discretion . 	true and a goose for his secret - keeping . 
not so ,  my lord; for his valour cannot carry his discretion ,  and the fox carries the goose . 	not so ,  my lord ,  because his courage cannot carry his secret - keeping ,  but the fox carries the goose . 
his discretion ,  I am sure ,  cannot carry his valour; for the goose carries not the fox . 	his secret - keeping ,  I am sure ,  cannot carry his courage ,  because the goose cannot carry the fox . 
he is no crescent ,  and his horns are invisible within the circumference . 	he is no crescent ,  and his horns are invisible within the circle . 
this lanthorn doth the horned moon present; Myself the man i' the moon do seem to be . 	this lantern represents the horned moon; I myself seem to be the man in the moon . 
how is it else the man i' the moon ? 	how else is it the man in the moon ? 
he dares not come there for the candle; for ,  you see ,  it is already in snuff . 	he doesn’t dare come there for the candle ,  because you see ,  it’s already out . 
I am aweary of this moon . 	I am weary of this moon . 
would he would change ! 	I wish he would change ! 
It appears ,  by his small light of discretion ,  that he is in the wane; but yet ,  in courtesy ,  in all reason ,  we must stay the time . 	It appears ,  by his small light of discretion ,  that he is growing dark ,  but still ,  politely ,  in all reason ,  we must pass the time . 
proceed ,  Moon . 	proceed ,  moon . 
all that I have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon; I ,  the man i' the moon; this thorn - bush ,  my thorn - bush; and this dog ,  my dog . 	all that I have to say ,  is to tell you that the lantern is the moon; I ,  the man in the moon; this thorn - bush ,  my thorn - bush; and this dog ,  my dog . 
why ,  all these should be in the lantern; for all these are in the moon . 	why ,  all these should be in the lantern; for all these are in the moon . 
but silence; here comes Thisbe . 	but silence; here comes Thisbe . 
this is old Ninny's tomb . 	this is old Ninny's tomb . 
where is my love ? 	where is my love ? 
well run ,  Thisbe . 	well run ,  Thisbe . 
well moused ,  Lion . 	well moused ,  lion . 
and then came Pyramus . 	and here comes Pyramus . 
and so the lion vanished . 	and then the lion vanishes . 
but stay ,  O spite ! 	but stay;—Oh spite ! 
but mark ,  poor knight ,  What dreadful dole is here ! 	but mark , —poor knight ,  What dreadful sorrow is here ! 
eyes ,  do you see ? 	eyes ,  do you see ? 
how can it he ? 	how can it be ? 
o dainty duck ! 	oh dainty duck ! 
o dear ! 	oh dear ! 
thy mantle good ,  What ! 	your shawl good ,  What ! 
stain'd with blood ? 	stained with blood ? 
approach ,  ye Furies fell . 	approach ,  you vicious fates ! 
o Fates ! 	oh fates ! 
come ,  come; Cut thread and thrum; Quail ,  crush ,  conclude ,  and quell . 	come ,  come; Cut thread and thrum; Quail ,  rush ,  conclude ,  and quell ! 
this passion ,  and the death of a dear friend ,  would go near to make a man look sad . 	this passion ,  and the death of a dear friend ,  would go far In making a man look sad . 
beshrew my heart ,  but I pity the man . 	curse my heart ,  but I pity the man . 
o wherefore ,  Nature ,  didst thou lions frame ? 	oh why ,  nature ,  did you make lions ? 
since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear; Which is—no ,  no—which was the fairest dame That lived ,  that loved ,  that liked ,  that looked with cheer . 	since the vile lion vile has here taken my dear; Which is—no ,  no—which was the fairest dame That lived ,  that loved ,  that liked ,  that looked with cheer . 
come ,  tears ,  confound; Out ,  sword ,  and wound The pap of Pyramus; Ay ,  that left pap ,  Where heart doth hop . 	come ,  tears ,  confound; Out ,  sword ,  and wound The pap (heart) of Pyramus . 
thus die I ,  thus ,  thus ,  thus . 	ay ,  that left pap ,  Where the heart beats . — Thus die I ,  thus ,  thus ,  thus . 
now am I dead ,  Now am I fled; My soul is in the sky . 	now am I dead ,  Now am I fled; My soul is in the sky . 
now die ,  die ,  die ,  die ,  die . 	now die ,  die ,  die ,  die ,  die . 
no die ,  but an ace ,  for him; for he is but one . 	no die ,  but an ace ,  for him ,  because he is only one . 
less than an ace ,  man; for he is dead; he is nothing . 	less than an ace ,  man; for he is dead; he is nothing . 
with the help of a surgeon he might yet recover and yet prove an ass . 	with the help of a surgeon he might yet recover and prove a donkey . 
how chance Moonshine is gone before Thisbe comes back and finds her lover ? 	how is it that moonshine is gone before Thisbe comes back and finds her lover ? 
a mote will turn the balance ,  which Pyramus ,  which Thisbe ,  is the better , —he for a man ,  God warrant us: She for a woman ,  God bless us ! 	a particle of dust will turn the balance ,  which Pyramus ,  which Thisbe ,  is the better . 
she hath spied him already with those sweet eyes . 	she has already seen him with those sweet eyes . 
and thus she moans ,  videlicet:— Asleep ,  my love ? 	and thus she moans ,  that is to say . — Asleep ,  my love ? 
what ,  dead ,  my dove ? 	what ,  dead ,  my dove ? 
o Pyramus ,  arise ,  Speak ,  speak . 	oh Pyramus ,  arise ,  Speak ,  speak . 
quite dumb ? 	quite dumb ? 
dead ,  dead ? 	dead ,  dead ? 
a tomb Must cover thy sweet eyes . 	a tomb Must cover your sweet eyes . 
o Sisters Three ,  Come ,  come to me ,  With hands as pale as milk; Lay them in gore ,  Since you have shore With shears his thread of silk . 	oh Sisters Three ,  Come ,  come to me ,  With hands as pale as milk; Lay them in gore ,  Since you have shore With shears his thread of silk . 
dies] [Dies] Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead . 	moonshine and lion are left to bury the dead . 
ay ,  and Wall too . 	ay ,  and wall too . 
no ,  I assure you; the wall is down that parted their fathers . 	no ,  I assure you; the wall is down that parted their fathers . 
will it please you to see the epilogue ,  or to hear a Bergomask dance between two of our company ? 	will it please you to see the epilogue ,  or to hear an Italian country dance between two of our company ? 
no epilogue ,  I pray you; for your play needs no excuse . 	no epilogue ,  I beg you ,  because your play needs no excuse . 
never excuse; for when the players are all dead there need none to be blamed . 	never excuse ,  for when the players are all dead ,  there’s no one to be blamed . 
marry ,  if he that writ it had played Pyramus ,  and hanged himself in Thisbe's garter ,  it would have been a fine tragedy . 	god ,  if he who wrote the play had played Pyramus ,  and hanged himself in Thisbe's garter ,  it would have been a fine tragedy . 
and so it is ,  truly; and very notably discharged . 	and so it is ,  truly; and very notably acted . 
but come ,  your Bergomask; let your epilogue alone . 	but come ,  your Italian country dance; forget your epilogue . 
I fear we shall out - sleep the coming morn ,  As much as we this night have overwatch'd . 	I’m afraid we shall oversleep in the morning ,  As much as we stayed up late this night . 
through the house give glimmering light ,  By the dead and drowsy fire; Every elf and fairy sprite Hop as light as bird from brier; And this ditty ,  after me ,  Sing and dance it trippingly . 	as you go through the house ,  use the dead and drowsy fire to give glimmering light ,  Every elf and fairy spirit Hop as lightly as bird hops from a thorn: And sing this little song ,  following me ,  And dance it as you sing it . 
now ,  until the break of day ,  Through this house each fairy stray . 	now ,  until dawn ,  Each fairy wander through this house . 
to the best bride - bed will we ,  Which by us shall blessed be; And the issue there create Ever shall be fortunate . 	we will go to the best marriage - bed ,  Which shall be blessed by us; And the children created there Shall forever be lucky and prosperous . 
trip away; make no stay; Meet me all by break of day . 	dance away: Don’t delay: All of you meet me by dawn . 
If we shadows have offended ,  Think but this ,  and all is mended ,  That you have but slumber'd here While these visions did appear . 	If we actors have offended you ,  Think about this ,  -  - and everything will be all right ,  -  - you have only dozed off here While these visions appeared . 
and this weak and idle theme ,  No more yielding but a dream ,  Gentles ,  do not reprehend . 	and this weak and idle play about love ,  Doesn’t mean any more than a dream . 
so ,  good night unto you all . 	so ,  good night to you all . 
give me your hands ,  if we be friends ,  And Robin shall restore amends . 	let’s have your applause ,  if we are friends ,  And Robin shall make good on his promise . 
so ,  with two seeming bodies but one heart ,  Two of the first ,  like coats in heraldry ,  Due but to one and crownèd with one crest . 	we seemed to have two separate bodies ,  but we had one heart . 
and will you rent our ancient love asunder To join with men in scorning your poor friend ? 	do you want to destroy our old friendship by joining these men to insult your poor friend ? 
It is not friendly ,  ’tis not maidenly . 	It’s not friendly ,  and it’s not ladylike . 
our sex ,  as well as I ,  may chide you for it ,  Though I alone do feel the injury . 	all women would be angry with you for doing it ,  even though I’m the only one who’s hurt by it . 
I scorn you not . 	I’m not insulting you . 
It seems that you scorn me . 	It sounds more like you’re insulting me . 
have you not set Lysander ,  as in scorn ,  To follow me and praise my eyes and face ? 	didn’t you send Lysander ,  as an insult ,  to follow me around praising my eyes and my face ? 
and made your other love ,  Demetrius— Who even but now did spurn me with his foot— To call me goddess ,  nymph ,  divine ,  and rare ,  Precious ,  celestial ? 	haven’t you made your other love ,  Demetrius—who kicked me with his foot not long ago—call me a goddess and a divine ,  rare ,  precious ,  heavenly creature ? 
wherefore speaks he this To her he hates ? 	why does he talk like that to a girl he can’t stand ? 
and wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love ,  so rich within his soul ,  And tender me ,  forsooth ,  affection ,  But by your setting on ,  by your consent ? 	and why does Lysander deny that he loves you ,  when he loves you so deeply ? 
what though I be not so in grace as you— So hung upon with love ,  so fortunate— But miserable most ,  to love unloved ? 	why does it matter that I’m not as lucky or lovable as you are and that the love I feel is unrequited ? 
this you should pity rather than despise . 	you should pity me for that reason ,  not hate me . 
I understand not what you mean by this . 	I don’t know what you’re talking about . 
ay ,  do . 	oh ,  fine . 
persever ,  counterfeit sad looks ,  Make mouths upon me when I turn my back ,  Wink each at other ,  hold the sweet jest up— This sport ,  well carried ,  shall be chronicled . 	all right ,  go ahead ,  keep up your little game ,  pretend to be sympathetic ,  but then nudge each other and wink and make faces at me when I turn my back . 
If you have any pity ,  grace ,  or manners ,  You would not make me such an argument . 	If you had any sense of pity ,  or manners ,  you wouldn’t pretend to fight over me like this . 
but fare ye well . 	but goodbye . 
tis partly my own fault ,  Which death or absence soon shall remedy . 	It’s partly my own fault ,  since I followed you here . 
stay ,  gentle Helena . 	stay ,  lovely Helena . 
hear my excuse . 	listen to my excuse . 
my love ,  my life ,  my soul ,  fair Helena ! 	my love ,  my life ,  my soul ,  beautiful Helena ! 
oh ,  excellent ! 	that’s a good one . 
thou canst compel no more than she entreat . 	you can’t force me any more than Hermia can beg me . 
thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers . — Helen ,  I love thee . 	your threats are no stronger than her whining . —Helena ,  I love you . 
by my life ,  I do . 	I swear I do . 
I swear by that which I will lose for thee To prove him false that says I love thee not . 	I’ll give my life for you ,  just to prove this guy wrong when he says I don’t love you . 
I say I love thee more than he can do . 	I say that I love you more than he does . 
If thou say so ,  withdraw and prove it too . 	If that’s what you say ,  go fight a duel with me and prove it . 
lysander ,  whereto tends all this ? 	lysander ,  where are you going with all this ? 
why are you grown so rude ? 	why have you gotten so rude ? 
thy love ? 	your darling ? 
out ,  tawny Tartar ,  out ! 	get out ,  you dark - skinned gypsy ! 
out ,  loathèd medicine ! 	get out ,  you horrible poison . 
o hated potion ,  hence ! 	get out ! 
do you not jest ? 	are you joking ? 
yes ,  sooth ,  and so do you . 	of course he is ,  and so are you . 
demetrius ,  I will keep my word with thee . 	demetrius ,  I’m ready to fight you as promised . 
I would I had your bond ,  for I perceive A weak bond holds you . 	I wish we had a signed legal contract . 
I’ll not trust your word . 	I don’t trust you . 
although I hate her ,  I’ll not harm her so . 	sure ,  I hate her ,  but I wouldn’t hurt her . 
ay ,  by my life ,  And never did desire to see thee more . 	I certainly did ,  and I never wanted to see you again . 
therefore be out of hope ,  of question ,  of doubt . 	so stop hoping and wondering what I mean . 
be certain ,  nothing truer . 	I’ve spelled it out for you clearly . 
o me ! 	oh ,  no ! 
fine ,  i' faith ! 	oh ,  that’s very nice ! 
have you no modesty ,  no maiden shame ,  No touch of bashfulness ? 	you ought to be ashamed of yourself ! 
puppet ”  ? 	puppet ”  ? 
why so ? —Ay ,  that way goes the game . 	why  “ puppet ”  ? —Oh ,  I see where this is going . 
how low am I ,  thou painted maypole ? 	so how short am I ,  you painted barber pole ? 
speak . 	tell me . 
how low am I ? 	how short am I ? 
good Hermia ,  do not be so bitter with me . 	good Hermia ,  please don’t act so bitter toward me . 
he followed you . 	he followed you . 
for love I followed him . 	and I followed him because I loved him . 
but he hath chid me hence and threatened me To strike me ,  spurn me—nay ,  to kill me too . 	but he told me to get lost and threatened to hit me ,  kick me—even kill me . 
let me go . 	please let me go . 
you see how simple and how fond I am . 	you see how naïve and foolish I’ve been . 
why ,  get you gone ! 	well ,  get out of here then ! 
who is ’t that hinders you ? 	what’s keeping you ? 
a foolish heart ,  that I leave here behind . 	my stupid heart ,  which I’m leaving behind here . 
what ,  with Lysander ? 	what ,  you’re leaving it with Lysander ? 
with Demetrius . 	no ,  with Demetrius . 
be not afraid . 	don’t be afraid . 
she shall not harm thee ,  Helena . 	she can’t hurt you ,  Helena . 
she was a vixen when she went to school . 	she was a hellcat in school . 
and though she be but little ,  she is fierce . 	and she’s fierce ,  even though she’s little . 
little ”  again ? 	little ”  again ? 
nothing but  “ low ”  and  “ little ”  ! — Why will you suffer her to flout me thus ? 	nothing but  “ little ”  and  “ short ”  ! — Why are you letting her insult me like this ? 
let me come to her . 	let me at her !  . 
what cheer ,  my love ? — Demetrius and Egeus ,  go along . 	how are you ,  my love ? —Demetrius and Egeus ,  come with us . 
I must employ you in some business Against our nuptial and confer with you Of something nearly that concerns yourselves . 	I want you to do some things for our wedding ,  and I also want to discuss something that concerns you both . 
with duty and desire we follow you . 	we’re following you not only because it is our duty ,  but also because we want to . 
how now ,  my love ? 	what’s going on ,  my love ? 
why is your cheek so pale ? 	why are you so pale ? 
how chance the roses there do fade so fast ? 	why have your rosy cheeks faded so quickly ? 
belike for want of rain ,  which I could well Beteem them from the tempest of my eyes . 	probably because my cheeks' roses needed rain ,  which I could easily give them with all the tears in my eyes . 
ay me ! 	oh ,  honey ! 
for aught that I could ever read ,  Could ever hear by tale or history ,  The course of true love never did run smooth . 	listen ,  in books they say that true love always faces obstacles . 
but either it was different in blood—	either the lovers have different social standings—
let her alone . 	leave Hermia alone . 
speak not of Helena . 	don’t talk about Helena . 
take not her part . 	don’t take Helena’s side . 
for if thou dost intend Never so little show of love to her ,  Thou shalt aby it . 	If you continue treating Hermia so badly ,  you’ll pay for it . 
now she holds me not . 	hermia’s not holding onto me anymore . 
now follow ,  if thou darest ,  to try whose right ,  Of thine or mine ,  is most in Helena . 	follow me if you’re brave enough ,  and we’ll fight over Helena . 
follow ”  ? 	follow ”  ? 
nay ,  I’ll go with thee ,  cheek by jowl . 	no ,  I’ll walk right next to you ,  side by side . 
you ,  mistress ,  all this coil is long of you . 	all this fighting is because of you . 
nay ,  go not back . 	stay where you are . 
I am amazed and know not what to say . 	I don’t know what to say . 
believe me ,  King of Shadows ,  I mistook . 	believe me ,  King of Illusions ,  I made a mistake . 
did not you tell me I should know the man By the Athenian garment he had on ? 	didn’t you tell me that I’d be able to recognize the man by the Athenian clothes he was wearing ? 
and so far blameless proves my enterprise ,  That I have 'nointed an Athenian’s eyes . 	so far I’ve done exactly what I was supposed to do—I put the love potion on an Athenian’s eyes . 
and so far am I glad it so did sort ,  As this their jangling I esteem a sport . 	and so far I’m pleased with the way things have turned out ,  since I find all of this commotion very entertaining . 
thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight . 	as you can see ,  these lovers are looking for a place to fight . 
hie therefore ,  Robin ,  overcast the night . 	hurry up ,  Robin ,  and make the night dark and cloudy . 
the starry welkin cover thou anon With drooping fog as black as Acheron ,  And lead these testy rivals so astray As one come not within another’s way . 	cover the sky with a low - hanging fog ,  as dark as hell ,  and get these overeager rivals so completely lost in the woods that they can’t run into each other . 
my fairy lord ,  this must be done with haste . 	we’ve got to act fast ,  my lord of the fairies . 
but we are spirits of another sort . 	I like the morning . 
I with the morning’s love have oft made sport ,  And like a forester the groves may tread Even till the eastern gate ,  all fiery red ,  Opening on Neptune with fair blessèd beams ,  Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams . 	I often wander around in the woods like a forest ranger until the sun rises in the fiery red sky over the ocean ,  turning the salty green water to gold . 
but notwithstanding ,  haste . 	but you should hurry anyway . 
make no delay . 	don’t delay . 
we may effect this business yet ere day . 	we still have time to get all of this done before daybreak . 
up and down ,  up and down ,   I will lead them up and down . 	up and down ,  up and down ,  I will lead them up and down . 
I am feared in field and town . 	the people fear me in the country and the town . 
goblin ,  lead them up and down . 	goblin ,  lead them up and down . 
here comes one . 	here comes one of them now . 
where art thou ,  proud Demetrius ? 	where are you ,  Demetrius ,  you arrogant bastard ? 
speak thou now . 	say something . 
lysander ,  speak again ! 	lysander ,  say something ! 
thou runaway ,  thou coward ,  art thou fled ? 	you coward ,  did you run away from me ? 
speak ! 	say something ! 
In some bush ? 	are you behind some bush ? 
where dost thou hide thy head ? 	where are you hiding ? 
yea ,  art thou there ? 	are you there ? 
he goes before me and still dares me on . 	he’s walking ahead of me ,  and he keeps daring me to follow him . 
when I come where he calls ,  then he is gone . 	when I reach the place he’s calling from ,  he disappears . 
the villain is much lighter - heeled than I .  I followed fast ,  but faster he did fly ,  That fallen am I in dark uneven way , 	this villain is much quicker than I am . 
and here will rest me . 	I’ll rest here . 
where art thou now ? 	where are you now ? 
nay ,  then ,  thou mock’st me . 	no ,  you’re just taunting me . 
thou shalt buy this dear If ever I thy face by daylight see . 	you’ll pay for this if I ever see you face - to - face in the daylight . 
now go thy way . 	go wherever you want . 
o weary night ,  O long and tedious night ,  Abate thy hours . 	oh ,  what a long ,  tedious ,  exhausting night ! 
yet but three ? 	only three so far ? 
come one more . 	we’re still waiting for one more . 
two of both kinds make up four . 	two of both kinds makes four . 
here she comes ,  cursed and sad . 	ah ,  here she comes ,  angry and sad . 
cupid is a knavish lad  Thus to make poor females mad . 	cupid is a bad boy for making poor women go crazy like this . 
here will I rest me till the break of day . 	I’ll sleep here until morning . 
heavens shield Lysander if they mean a fray ! 	If they do fight ,  I hope Lysander is safe ! 
on the ground  Sleep sound . 	sleep well there on the ground . 
where’s Peaseblossom ? 	where’s Peaseblossom ? 
ready . 	here . 
scratch my head ,  Peaseblossom . 	scratch my head ,  Peaseblossom . 
where’s Monsieur Cobweb ? 	where’s Monsieur Cobweb ? 
ready . 	here . 
do not fret yourself too much in the action ,  monsieur . 	don’t tire yourself out ,  monsieur . 
and good monsieur ,  have a care the honey bag break not . 	oh ,  and monsieur ,  be careful not to break the honey - sac . 
I would be loath to have you overflown with a honey bag ,  signor . 	I’d hate to see you drowned in honey ,  sir . 
where’s Monsieur Mustardseed ? 	where’s Monsieur Mustardseed ? 
ready . 	here . 
give me your neaf ,  Monsieur Mustardseed . 	give me your first ,  Mr .  Mustardseed . 
pray you ,  leave your courtesy ,  good monsieur . 	please ,  stop bowing ,  good sir . 
what’s your will ? 	what would you like me to do ? 
nothing ,  good monsieur ,  but to help Cavalery Cobweb to scratch . 	nothing ,  good sir ,  except to help Sir Cobweb scratch my head . 
I must to the barber’s ,  monsieur ,  for methinks I am marvelous hairy about the face . 	I should go to the barber’s ,  monsieur ,  because I think I’m getting really hairy around the face . 
and I am such a tender ass ,  if my hair do but tickle me ,  I must scratch . 	and I’m such a sensitive ass that if my hair even tickles me a little ,  I need to scratch . 
what ,  wilt thou hear some music ,  my sweet love ? 	would you like to hear some music ,  my sweet love ? 
I have a reasonable good ear in music . 	I have a pretty good ear for music . 
let’s have the tongs and the bones . 	let’s hear someone play the triangle and the sticks . 
or say ,  sweet love ,  what thou desirest to eat . 	or tell me ,  my sweet love ,  what you’d like to eat . 
truly ,  a peck of provender . 	actually ,  I’d like a few pounds of grass . 
I could munch your good dry oats . 	I’d like to munch on some good dry oats . 
methinks I have a great desire to a bottle of hay . 	or maybe I’ve got a hankering for a bundle of hay . 
good hay ,  sweet hay ,  hath no fellow . 	there’s nothing like good hay ,  really sweet hay . 
I have a venturous fairy that shall seek The squirrel’s hoard and fetch thee new nuts . 	I have an adventurous fairy who’ll go seek out the squirrel’s secret stash and get you some fresh nuts . 
I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas . 	I’d rather have a handful or two of dried peas . 
but ,  I pray you ,  let none of your people stir me . 	but please don’t let any of your people wake me up . 
I have an exposition of sleep come upon me . 	I really want to sleep now . 
sleep thou ,  and I will wind thee in my arms . 	go to sleep ,  and I will wrap my arms around you . 
oh ,  how I love thee ! 	oh ,  how I love you ! 
how I dote on thee ! 	I’m so crazy about you ! 
welcome ,  good Robin . 	welcome ,  good Robin . 
seest thou this sweet sight ? 	do you see this sweet sight ? 
her dotage now I do begin to pity . 	now I’m starting to pity Titania for being so infatuated . 
for ,  meeting her of late behind the wood ,  Seeking sweet favors from this hateful fool ,  I did upbraid her and fall out with her . 	I ran into her recently at the edge of the forest ,  looking for sweet presents for this hateful idiot ,  and I scolded her and argued with her . 
for she his hairy temples then had rounded With a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers ,  And that same dew ,  which sometime on the buds Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls ,  Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail . 	she had put a wreath of fresh ,  fragrant flowers around his hairy forehead ,  and the drops of dew that lay in the center of the flowers made the flowers look like they were crying with shame to be decorating the head of that ugly jackass . 
and now I have the boy ,  I will undo This hateful imperfection of her eyes . 	and now that I have the boy ,  I’ll undo the spell that makes her vision so disgustingly wrong . 
and ,  gentle Puck ,  take this transformèd scalp From off the head of this Athenian swain ,  That ,  he awaking when the other do ,  May all to Athens back again repair And think no more of this night’s accidents But as the fierce vexation of a dream . 	and ,  gentle Puck ,  take this transformed ass’s head off of the head of that Athenian man ,  so that when he wakes up at the same time as the rest of them do ,  they can all go back to Athens . 
but first I will release the fairy queen . 	but first I’ll release the fairy queen from the spell . 
now ,  my Titania ,  wake you ,  my sweet queen . 	now ,  Titania ,  wake up ,  my sweet queen . 
there lies your love . 	there’s your boyfriend ,  sleeping right over there . 
how came these things to pass ? 	how did this happen ? 
oh ,  how mine eyes do loathe his visage now ! 	oh ,  I hate looking at his face now ! 
silence awhile . —Robin ,  take off this head . — Titania ,  music call ,  and strike more dead Than common sleep of all these five the sense . 	be quiet for a while . —Robin ,  take off his donkey head . —Titania ,  get the fairies to play some music ,  and make these five people sleep more soundly than humans have ever slept before . 
music ,  ho ! 	music ! 
music such as charmeth sleep ! 	play the kind of music that puts people to sleep . 
sound ,  music ! —Come ,  my queen ,  take hands with me ,  And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be . 	play the music . —Take my hands ,  my queen ,  and we’ll lull these people to sleep with our soft dancing . 
too old to be engaged to young . 	being too old to marry someone young . 
or else it stood upon the choice of friends— O hell ,  to choose love by another’s eyes ! 	or else their guardians and advisors said no— What hell ,  to have your love life determined by someone else ! 
so quick bright things come to confusion . 	that’s how intense things like love are quickly destroyed . 
If then true lovers have been ever crossed ,  It stands as an edict in destiny . 	If true lovers are always thwarted ,  then it must be a rule of fate . 
a good persuasion . 	that’s the right attitude . 
therefore ,  hear me ,  Hermia . 	so ,  listen ,  Hermia . 
I have a widow aunt ,  a dowager Of great revenue ,  and she hath no child . 	I have an aunt who is a widow ,  who’s very rich and doesn’t have any children . 
from Athens is her house remote seven leagues ,  And she respects me as her only son . 	she lives about twenty miles from Athens ,  and she thinks of me as a son . 
there ,  gentle Hermia ,  may I marry thee . 	I could marry you there ,  gentle Hermia ,  where the strict laws of Athens can’t touch us . 
and to that place the sharp Athenian law Cannot pursue us . 	so here’s the plan . 
fairy King ,  attend ,  and mark . 	listen ,  Fairy King . 
I do hear the morning lark . 	I can hear the lark singing . 
then ,  my queen ,  in silence sad ,  Trip we after the night’s shade . 	morning’s here . 
come ,  my lord ,  and in our flight Tell me how it came this night That I sleeping here was found With these mortals on the ground . 	while we’re walking ,  you can tell me how I ended up sleeping on the ground with these humans last night . 
go ,  one of you ,  find out the forester . 	one of you go find the forest ranger . 
uncouple in the western valley . 	unleash the dogs in the western valley . 
let them go . 	let them go . 
dispatch ,  I say ,  and find the forester . 	now go find the forest ranger . 
we will ,  fair queen ,  up to the mountain’s top ,  And mark the musical confusion Of hounds and echo in conjunction . 	my beautiful queen ,  we’ll go up the mountain and listen to the hounds as their barking echoes in the cliffs and sounds like music . 
I was with Hercules and Cadmus once ,  When in a wood of Crete they bayed the bear With hounds of Sparta . 	I was with the heroes Hercules and Cadmus once ,  when their Spartan hunting dogs cornered a bear . 
the skies ,  the fountains ,  every region near Seemed all one mutual cry . 	the forests ,  the skies ,  the mountains ,  everything around us seemed to echo the barks of the hounds . 
I never heard So musical a discord ,  such sweet thunder . 	I’d never heard such raucous music ,  such pleasant thunder . 
I wonder of their being here together . 	I don’t understand why they’re all here together . 
but speak ,  Egeus . 	but tell me ,  Egeus . 
Is not this the day That Hermia should give answer of her choice ? 	Isn’t today the day when Hermia has to tell us her decision about whether she’ll marry Demetrius ? 
It is ,  my lord . 	It is ,  my lord . 
go ,  bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns . 	go tell the hunters to blow their horns and wake them up . 
good morrow ,  friends . 	good morning ,  my friends . 
saint Valentine is past . 	valentine’s Day is over . 
begin these woodbirds but to couple now ? 	are you lovebirds only starting to pair up now ? 
pardon ,  my lord . 	forgive us ,  my lord . 
I pray you all ,  stand up . 	please ,  all of you ,  stand up . 
my lord ,  I shall reply amazèdly ,  Half sleep ,  half waking . 	my lord ,  what I say may be a little confused ,  since I’m half asleep and half awake . 
but as yet ,  I swear ,  I cannot truly say how I came here . 	I swear ,  at the moment I really couldn’t tell you how I ended up here . 
but as I think—for truly would I speak ,  And now do I bethink me ,  so it is— I came with Hermia hither . 	but I think—I want to tell you the truth ,  and now that I think about it ,  I think this is true—I came here with Hermia . 
and all the faith ,  the virtue of my heart ,  The object and the pleasure of mine eye ,  Is only Helena . 	now the only person I love ,  and believe in ,  and want to look at ,  is Helena . 
to her ,  my lord ,  Was I betrothed ere I saw Hermia . 	I was engaged to her before I ever met Hermia . 
fair lovers ,  you are fortunately met . 	you pretty lovers are lucky you met me here . 
of this discourse we more will hear anon . — Egeus ,  I will overbear your will . 	we’ll talk more about this later . —Egeus ,  I’m overriding your wishes . 
away with us to Athens . 	come with us to Athens . 
three and three ,  We’ll hold a feast in great solemnity . 	we three couples will celebrate with a sumptuous feast . 
are you sure That we are awake ? 	are you sure we’re awake ? 
It seems to me That yet we sleep ,  we dream . 	It seems to me like we’re still sleeping ,  still dreaming . 
and he did bid us follow to the temple . 	and he told us to follow him to the temple . 
why then ,  we are awake . 	well ,  then ,  we’re awake . 
It shall be called  “ Bottom’s Dream ”  because it hath no bottom . 	I’ll call it  “ Bottom’s Dream ”  because it’s so deep that it has no bottom . 
and I will sing it in the latter end of a play before the duke . 	and I’ll sing it for the duke in the intermission of a play . 
peradventure ,  to make it the more gracious ,  I shall sing it at her death . 	or maybe ,  to make it even more lovely ,  I’ll sing it when the heroine dies . 
have you sent to Bottom’s house ? 	have you sent anyone to Bottom’s house ? 
Is he come home yet ? 	has he come home yet ? 
he cannot be heard of . 	no one’s heard from him . 
out of doubt he is transported . 	I’m sure he’s been kidnapped . 
If he come not ,  then the play is marred . 	If he doesn’t show up ,  the play is ruined . 
It goes not forward . 	It won’t go on . 
doth it ? 	will it ? 
It is not possible . 	no ,  it would be impossible . 
no ,  he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in Athens . 	he’s quite simply the smartest working - man in Athens . 
yea ,  and the best person too . 	yes ,  and the best looking too . 
and he is a very paramour for a sweet voice . 	and his voice is the paramour of sweetness . 
you must say  “ paragon .  ”  A  “ paramour ”  is ,  God bless us ,  a thing of naught . 	you mean  “ paragon .  ”  A  The duke’s leaving the temple . 
masters ,  the duke is coming from the temple ,  and there is two or three lords and ladies more married . 	two or three more lords and ladies have been married too . 
If our sport had gone forward ,  we had all been made men . 	If we’d been able to put on our play ,  we would have had it made . 
o sweet bully Bottom ! 	oh that great ,  funny guy ,  Bottom ! 
thus hath he lost sixpence a day during his life . 	he would have gotten a pension of six pence a day for his whole life . 
he could not have ’scaped sixpence a day . 	six pence a day would’ve been forced on him . 
an the duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing Pyramus ,  I’ll be hanged . 	I’ll be damned if the duke wouldn’t have given him six pence a day for playing Pyramus . 
he would have deserved it . 	and he would have deserved it too . 
where are these hearts ? 	where are my good fellows ? 
bottom ! 	bottom ! 
o most courageous day ! 	oh ,  how wonderful to see you ! 
o most happy hour ! 	oh ,  what a relief ! 
I will tell you everything ,  right as it fell out . 	I’ll tell you everything exactly as it happened . 
let us hear ,  sweet Bottom . 	tell us ,  Bottom . 
not a word of me . 	no ,  you won’t get a word out of me . 
all that I will tell you is that the duke hath dined . 	all I’ll tell you is that the duke has had dinner already . 
get your apparel together ,  good strings to your beards ,  new ribbons to your pumps . 	now it’s time to get your costumes together . 
meet presently at the palace . 	meet me at the palace as soon as possible . 
every man look o'er his part . 	look over your lines again . 
and most dear actors ,  eat no onions nor garlic ,  for we are to utter sweet breath . 	and no one eat any onions or garlic . 
and I do not doubt but to hear them say ,   “ It is a sweet comedy .  ”  No more words . 	If we have sweet - smelling breath ,  I’m sure they’ll say  “ it’s a sweet play .  ”  Now no more talking . 
away ,  go away ! 	get busy ,  go ! 
tis strange ,  my Theseus ,  that these lovers speak of . 	these lovers are saying some strange things ,  Theseus . 
I never may believe These antique fables nor these fairy toys . 	I’ll never believe any of these old legends or fairy tales . 
the lunatic ,  the lover ,  and the poet Are of imagination all compact . 	lunatics ,  lovers ,  and poets all are ruled by their overactive imaginations . 
but all the story of the night told over ,  And all their minds transfigured so together ,  More witnesseth than fancy’s images And grows to something of great constancy ,  But ,  howsoever ,  strange and admirable . 	their story is bizarre and astounding ,  but it’s solid and consistent . 
here come the lovers ,  full of joy and mirth . — Joy ,  gentle friends ! 	here come the lovers ,  laughing happily . —I wish you joy ,  my friends ! 
come now ,  what masques ,  what dances shall we have To wear away this long age of three hours Between our after - supper and bedtime ? 	now ,  what kind of entertainment do we have to fill up the long three hours between dinner and bedtime ? 
where is our usual manager of mirth ? 	where is our entertainment director ? 
what revels are in hand ? 	what performances have been prepared ? 
call Philostrate . 	let me see Philostrate . 
here ,  mighty Theseus . 	here I am ,  Theseus . 
what masque ,  what music ? 	which plays ,  what music ? 
how shall we beguile The lazy time if not with some delight ? 	how will we pass the time without some entertainment ? 
keep promise ,  love . 	keep your promise ,  my love . 
look ,  here comes Helena . 	look ,  here comes Helena . 
godspeed ,  fair Helena ! 	hello ,  beautiful Helena ! 
whither away ? 	where are you going ? 
call you me  “ fair ”  ? 	did you just call me  “ beautiful ”  ? 
that  “ fair ”  again unsay . 	take it back . 
demetrius loves your fair . 	you’re the beautiful one as far as Demetrius is concerned . 
o happy fair ! 	oh ,  you’re so lucky ! 
your eyes are lodestars ,  and your tongue’s sweet air More tunable than lark to shepherd’s ear When wheat is green ,  when hawthorn buds appear . 	your eyes are like stars ,  and your voice is more musical than a lark’s song is to a shepherd in the springtime . 
were the world mine ,  Demetrius being bated ,  The rest I’d give to be to you translated . 	If the world were mine ,  I’d give it all up—everything except Demetrius—to be you . 
the thrice three Muses mourning for the death  Of learning ,  late deceased in beggary .  ”  That is some satire ,  keen and critical ,  Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony . 	the nine Muses mourning the death of learning and scholarship .  ”  That’s some sharp ,  critical satire ,  and it’s not appropriate for a wedding . 
tedious ”  and  “ brief ”  ? 	short but still tedious ? 
that is hot ice and wondrous strange snow . 	that’s like hot ice and strange snow . 
how shall we find the concord of this discord ? 	how can this drama be so many contradictory things ? 
a play there is ,  my lord ,  some ten words long ,  Which is as brief as I have known a play . 	It’s a play about ten words long ,  which is the shortest play I’ve ever heard of . 
for in all the play There is not one word apt ,  one player fitted . 	In the entire play ,  not one word is well - written ,  and not one of the actors is right for his part . 
for Pyramus therein doth kill himself . 	It’s tragic because Pyramus kills himself . 
which ,  when I saw rehearsed ,  I must confess ,  Made mine eyes water—but more merry tears The passion of loud laughter never shed . 	I have to admit that when I saw his suicide during rehearsal ,  I had tears in my eyes—but they were tears of laughter . 
what are they that do play it ? 	who are the actors ? 
and we will hear it . 	so let’s see it . 
no ,  my noble lord . 	no ,  my noble lord . 
It is not for you . 	this play isn’t right for you . 
I have heard it over ,  And it is nothing ,  nothing in the world— Unless you can find sport in their intents ,  Extremely stretched and conned with cru 'l pain To do you service . 	I’ve seen the whole thing ,  and it’s completely worthless—unless you think their bad acting and their misremembered lines—which they memorized so painfully—are funny . 
I will hear that play . 	I’ll watch this play . 
go ,  bring them in . —And take your places ,  ladies . 	come on ,  bring them in . 
why ,  gentle sweet ,  you shall see no such thing . 	you won’t see anything like that ,  sweetheart . 
he says they can do nothing in this kind . 	he just said that they’re no good at acting . 
where I have come ,  great clerks have purposèd To greet me with premeditated welcomes ,  Where I have seen them shiver and look pale ,  Make periods in the midst of sentences ,  Throttle their practiced accent in their fears ,  And in conclusion dumbly have broke off ,  Not paying me a welcome . 	In my travels ,  great scholars have come up to me ,  meaning to greet me with well - rehearsed welcoming speeches ,  and I have seen them tremble and turn pale ,  and pause inappropriately in the middle of their sentences ,  and botch their well - rehearsed tones of voice because they’re so nervous ,  and then break off abruptly at the end ,  without actually welcoming me . 
love ,  therefore ,  and tongue - tied simplicity In least speak most ,  to my capacity . 	therefore ,  love and tongue - tied simplicity can say the most even when they’re saying the least ,  in my opinion . 
so please your grace ,  the Prologue is addressed . 	your grace ,  the person who is going to deliver the prologue is ready . 
let him approach . 	let him come forward . 
If we offend ,  it is with our good will . 	If we happen to offend you ,  it’s because we want to . 
that you should think we come not to offend ,  But with good will . 	we don’t want you to think we came here to offend you ,  except that we want to offend you with our good intentions . 
consider then we come but in despite . 	please keep in mind we’re only here out of spite . 
we do not come as minding to contest you ,  Our true intent is . 	we don’t come here with the intention of making you happy . 
all for your delight We are not here . 	we’re absolutely not here to delight you . 
that you should here repent you ,  The actors are at hand ,  and by their show You shall know all that you are like to know . 	by watching their show ,  you’ll find out everything you’re likely to know . 
this fellow doth not stand upon points . 	this guy doesn’t pay much attention to punctuation . 
he hath rid his prologue like a rough colt . 	he rode that prologue like a wild horse . 
he knows not the stop . 	he didn’t know how to stop it . 
a good moral ,  my lord: it is not enough to speak ,  but to speak true . 	the moral of this story is that it’s not enough to speak; you have to speak grammatically . 
his speech was like a tangled chain . 	his speech was like a tangled chain . 
who is next ? 	who’s next ? 
I wonder if the lion be to speak . 	I wonder if the lion’s going to talk . 
no wonder ,  my lord . 	It wouldn’t surprise me ,  my lord . 
would you desire lime and hair to speak better ? 	can you imagine cement and stone talking better ? 
It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard discourse ,  my lord . 	It’s the smartest partition I’ve ever heard speak ,  my lord . 
pyramus draws near the wall . 	pyramus is coming up to the wall . 
silence ! 	be quiet ! 
I fear my Thisbe’s promise is forgot ! — And thou ,  O Wall ,  O sweet ,  O lovely Wall ,  That stand’st between her father’s ground and mine . 	I’m afraid my Thisbe has forgotten her promise ! —And you ,  oh Wall ,  oh sweet ,  oh lovely Wall ,  you stand between her father’s property and mine ,  you Wall ,  oh Wall ,  oh sweet and lovely Wall . 
jove shield thee well for this ! 	god bless you for doing this . 
but what see I ? 	but what’s this I see ? 
no Thisbe do I see . 	I don’t see any Thisbe . 
o wicked Wall through whom I see no bliss ! 	oh wicked wall ,  through which I don’t see any happiness ! 
cursed be thy stones for thus deceiving me ! 	damn your stones for disappointing me like this ! 
the wall ,  methinks ,  being sensible ,  should curse again . 	since the wall is conscious ,  it should curse back at him . 
I see a voice . 	I see a voice ! 
now will I to the chink ,  To spy an I can hear my Thisbe’s face . 	I’ll go to the hole to see if I can hear my Thisbe’s face . 
thisbe ? 	thisbe ? 
my love thou art ,  my love ,  I think . 	you are my love ,  my love ,  I think . 
think what thou wilt ,  I am thy lover’s grace . 	I’m your love ,  no matter what you think . 
wilt thou at Ninny’s tomb meet me straightway ? 	will you meet me right away at Ninny’s grave ? 
tide life ,  tide death ,  I come without delay . 	neither death nor life will stop me from coming . 
thus have I ,  Wall ,  my part dischargèd so . 	I ,  Wall ,  have done my part . 
and ,  being done ,  thus Wall away doth go . 	now that I’m done ,  Wall can go away . 
this is the silliest stuff that ever I heard . 	this is the silliest thing I’ve ever seen . 
the best in this kind are but shadows ,  and the worst are no worse if imagination amend them . 	the best plays are still only illusions ,  and the worst are just as good ,  if you just use your imagination to fill them in . 
It must be your imagination then ,  and not theirs . 	In that case it’s your imagination that’s interesting ,  not the play . 
here come two noble beasts in ,  a man and a lion . 	look ,  here come two noble animals ,  a man and a lion . 
a very gentle beast ,  of a good conscience . 	ah ,  it’s a sensitive animal ,  with a good conscience . 
this lion is a very fox ,  for his valor . 	he’s as brave as a fox . 
true . 	true . 
and a goose for his discretion . 	and as wise as a goose . 
not so ,  my lord . 	oh ,  that’s not true ,  my lord . 
for his valor cannot carry his discretion ,  and the fox carries the goose . 	he’s not brave enough to be wise . 
his discretion ,  I am sure ,  cannot carry his valor ,  for the goose carries not the fox . 	he’s not wise enough to be brave . 
It is well . 	anyway ,  he is what he is . 
leave it to his discretion ,  and let us listen to the moon . 	let’s listen to the moon . 
this lanthorn doth the hornèd moon present . 	this lantern represents the moon . 
myself the man i' th' moon do seem to be— This is the greatest error of all the rest . 	I myself am playing the man in the moon— Well then ,  that’s the biggest mistake of all . 
the man should be put into the lanthorn . 	the man should be inside the lantern . 
how is it else the  “ man i' th' moon ”  ? 	how else is he the  “ man in the moon ”  ? 
he dares not come there for the candle . 	he can’t go in there because of the candle . 
for you see ,  it is already in snuff . 	It’s too hot . 
I am aweary of this moon . 	I’m tired of this moon . 
proceed ,  Moon . 	go ahead ,  Moon . 
all that I have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon; I ,  the man in the moon; this thornbush ,  my thornbush; and this dog ,  my dog . 	all I wanted to tell you is that the lantern is the moon ,  I’m the man in the moon ,  this thornbush is my thornbush ,  and this dog is my dog . 
why ,  all these should be in the lanthorn ,  for all these are in the moon . —But silence ! 	well ,  all of these should be in the lantern ,  because they’re all in the moon . 
here comes Thisbe . 	but be quiet ,  here comes Thisbe . 
this is old Ninny’s tomb . 	this is old Ninny’s tomb . 
where is my love ? 	but where is my love ? 
well roared ,  Lion ! 	good roaring ,  Lion ! 
well run ,  Thisbe ! 	good running ,  Thisbe ! 
well shone ,  Moon ! —Truly ,  the moon shines with a good grace . 	good shining ,  Moon ! —Really ,  the Moon shines very well . 
well moused ,  Lion ! 	that’s good ,  Lion ! 
o ,  teach me how you look and with what art You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart . 	oh ,  teach me how you look the way you do ,  and which tricks you used to make Demetrius fall in love with you . 
I frown upon him ,  yet he loves me still . 	I frown at him ,  but he still loves me . 
oh ,  that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill ! 	oh ,  if only my smiles could inspire love as effectively as your frowns ! 
I give him curses ,  yet he gives me love . 	I curse him ,  but he loves me . 
oh ,  that my prayers could such affection move ! 	If only my prayers could inspire that kind of affection ! 
the more I hate ,  the more he follows me . 	the more I hate him ,  the more he follows me around . 
the more I love ,  the more he hateth me . 	the more I love him ,  the more he hates me . 
his folly ,  Helena ,  is no fault of mine . 	It’s not my fault he acts like that ,  Helena . 
none ,  but your beauty . 	that’s true ,  it’s your beauty’s fault . 
would that fault were mine ! 	I wish I had a fault like that ! 
take comfort . 	don’t worry . 
he no more shall see my face . 	he won’t see my face ever again . 
lysander and myself will fly this place . 	lysander and I are running away from here . 
before the time I did Lysander see Seemed Athens as a paradise to me . 	before I saw Lysander ,  Athens seemed like paradise to me . 
oh ,  then ,  what graces in my love do dwell ,  That he hath turned a heaven unto a hell ! 	but Lysander’s so attractive that he’s turned heaven into hell ! 
helen ,  to you our minds we will unfold . 	helena ,  we’ll tell you about our secret plan . 
tomorrow night when Phoebe doth behold Her silver visage in the watery glass ,  Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass (A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal) ,  Through Athens' gates have we devised to steal . 	tomorrow night ,  when the moon shines on the water and decorates the grass with tiny beads of pearly light (the time of night that always hides runaway lovers) ,  we plan to sneak out of Athens . 
and then came Pyramus . 	and then Pyramus showed up . 
and so the lion vanished . 	so the lion disappeared . 
sweet Moon ,  I thank thee for thy sunny beams . 	sweet Moon ,  I thank you for your sunny beams . 
but mark ,  poor knight ,  What dreadful dole is here ! 	but ,  look ,  poor me ,  what a terrible tragedy is here ! 
eyes ,  do you see ? 	eyes ,  do you see ? 
how can it be ? 	how can it be ? 
o dainty duck ! 	oh ,  dainty duck ! 
o dear ! 	oh ,  dear ! 
o Fates ,  come ,  come ,  Cut thread and thrum . 	oh ,  Fate ,  come and cut the thread of my life . 
quail ,  crush ,  conclude ,  and quell ! 	conquer ,  crush ,  conclude ,  and kill ! 
o wherefore ,  Nature ,  didst thou lions frame ? 	oh ,  Mother Nature ,  why did you create lions ? 
thus die I ,  thus ,  thus ,  thus . 	and so I’m dying . 
now am I dead . 	okay ,  now I’m dead . 
now die ,  die ,  die ,  die ,  die . 	now die ,  die ,  die ,  die ,  die . 
with the help of a surgeon he might yet recover and prove an ass . 	with a doctor’s help he might recover and become an ass again . 
methinks she should not use a long one for such a Pyramus . 	I don’t think a ridiculous Pyramus like that one deserves much moaning . 
I hope she will be brief . 	I hope she keeps it short . 
she hath spied him already with those sweet eyes . 	look ,  she’s spotted him with those sweet eyes of hers . 
and thus she means ,  videlicet— Asleep ,  my love ? 	and now she’ll start moaning ,  of course— Are you asleep ,  my love ? 
what ,  dead ,  my dove ? 	what ,  are you dead ,  my dove ? 
o Pyramus ,  arise ! 	oh ,  Pyramus ,  get up ! 
speak ,  speak . 	speak ,  speak . 
quite dumb ? 	can’t you talk ? 
dead ,  dead ? 	dead ,  dead ? 
a tomb Must cover thy sweet eyes . 	the dirt of a grave must cover your sweet eyes ! 
these lily lips ,  This cherry nose ,  These yellow cowslip cheeks Are gone ,  are gone . 	your lily - white lips ,  your cherry - red nose ,  and your buttercup - yellow cheeks are gone ,  gone forever . 
lovers ,  make moan . 	lovers ,  moan and weep . 
his eyes were green as leeks . 	his eyes were as green as leeks . 
o Sisters three ,  Come ,  come to me With hands as pale as milk . 	oh ,  Fate ,  come ,  come to me ,  with hands as pale as milk . 
lay them in gore ,  Since you have shore With shears his thread of silk . 	soak your hands in blood and gore ,  since you have cut the thread of his life with scissors . 
tongue ,  not a word . 	tongue ,  do not speak . 
come ,  trusty sword . 	come ,  trusty sword . 
come ,  blade ,  my breast imbrue . 	come ,  blade ,  drench my breast with blood . 
moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead . 	moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead . 
ay ,  and Wall too . 	yes ,  and Wall too . 
no epilogue ,  I pray you ,  for your play needs no excuse . 	no epilogue ,  please . 
never excuse—for when the players are all dead ,  there needs none to be blamed . 	never apologize—when the actors are all dead ,  no one can be blamed . 
marry ,  if he that writ it had played Pyramus and hanged himself in Thisbe’s garter ,  it would have been a fine tragedy . 	as a matter of fact ,  if the playwright had played Pyramus and hanged himself with Thisbe’s belt ,  it would have been a very good tragedy . 
and so it is ,  truly ,  and very notably discharged . 	It’s a good tragedy ,  very well done . 
but come ,  your Bergomask . 	but come on ,  let’s see you do your dance . 
let your epilogue alone . 	forget your epilogue . 
the iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve . 	the clock has chimed midnight . 
lovers ,  to bed . 	lovers ,  it’s time to go to bed . 
tis almost fairy time . 	It’s almost fairy time . 
sweet friends ,  to bed . 	dear friends ,  let’s go to bed . 
through the house give glimmering light ,  By the dead and drowsy fire . 	let the dying fire shine a glimmering light throughout the house . 
first ,  rehearse your song by rote ,  To each word a warbling note . 	first rehearse your song from memory ,  and make sure each note is pretty . 
hand in hand with fairy grace Will we sing and bless this place . 	we’ll all join hands and sing ,  and bless this place with our fairy grace . 
If you pardon ,  we will mend . 	If you forgive us ,  we’ll make everything all right . 
and ,  as I am an honest Puck ,   If we have unearnèd luck  Now to ’scape the serpent’s tongue ,   We will make amends ere long . 	I’m an honest Puck ,  and I swear that if we’re lucky enough not to get hissed at ,  we’ll make it up to you soon . 
else the Puck a liar call . 	If not ,  then I’m a liar . 
so good night unto you all . 	so good night to everyone . 
give me your hands if we be friends ,   And Robin shall restore amends . 	give me some applause ,  if we’re friends ,  and Robin will make everything up to you . 
there my Lysander and myself shall meet . 	from then on we’ll turn our backs on Athens . 
and thence from Athens turn away our eyes To seek new friends and stranger companies . 	we’ll look for new friends and keep the company of strangers . 
farewell ,  sweet playfellow . 	goodbye ,  old friend . 
we must starve our sight From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight . 	we need to stay away from each other until midnight tomorrow . 
I will ,  my Hermia . 	I will ,  my Hermia . 
helena ,  adieu . 	goodbye ,  Helena . 
as you on him ,  Demetrius dote on you ! 	I hope Demetrius comes to love you as much as you love him ! 
but what of that ? 	but so what ? 
demetrius thinks not so . 	demetrius doesn’t think so ,  and that’s all that matters . 
he will not know what all but he do know . 	he refuses to admit what everyone else knows . 
things base and vile ,  holding no quantity ,  Love can transpose to form and dignity . 	love can make worthless things beautiful . 
love looks not with the eyes but with the mind . 	when we’re in love ,  we don’t see with our eyes but with our minds . 
and therefore is winged Cupid painted blind . 	that’s why paintings of Cupid ,  the god of love ,  always show him as blind . 
nor hath Love’s mind of any judgment taste— Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste . 	and love doesn’t have good judgment either—Cupid ,  has wings and no eyes ,  so he’s bound to be reckless and hasty . 
and therefore is Love said to be a child ,  Because in choice he is so oft beguiled . 	that’s why they say love is a child . 
then to the wood will he tomorrow night Pursue her . 	he’ll run after her . 
Is all our company here ? 	Is everyone here ? 
first ,  good Peter Quince ,  say what the play treats on ,  then read the names of the actors ,  and so grow to a point . 	first ,  Peter Quince ,  tell us what the play is about ,  then read the names of the actors ,  and then shut up . 
answer as I call you . —Nick Bottom ,  the weaver ? 	answer when I call your name . —Nick Bottom ,  the weaver ? 
ready . 	here . 
name what part I am for and proceed . 	tell me which part I’m going to play ,  then go on . 
you ,  Nick Bottom ,  are set down for Pyramus . 	you ,  Nick Bottom ,  have been cast as Pyramus . 
what is Pyramus ? 	what’s Pyramus ? 
I will condole in some measure . —To the rest . —Yet my chief humor is for a tyrant . 	I’ll moan very believably . —Name the other actors . —But I’m really in the mood to play a tyrant . 
I could play Ercles rarely ,  or a part to tear a cat in to make all split . 	I could do a great job with Hercules ,  or any other part that requires ranting and raving . 
a lover is more condoling . 	a lover would have to be weepier ,  of course . 
francis Flute ,  the bellows - mender ? 	francis Flute ,  the bellows - repairman ? 
here ,  Peter Quince . 	here ,  Peter Quince . 
what is Thisbe ? 	who’s Thisbe ? 
a wandering knight ? 	a knight on a quest ? 
It is the lady that Pyramus must love . 	thisbe is the lady Pyramus is in love with . 
nay ,  faith ,  let me not play a woman . 	no ,  come on ,  don’t make me play a woman . 
I have a beard coming . 	I’m growing a beard . 
that’s all one . 	that doesn’t matter . 
you shall play it in a mask ,  and you may speak as small as you will . 	you’ll wear a mask ,  and you can make your voice as high as you want to . 
an I may hide my face ,  let me play Thisbe too ! 	In that case ,  if I can wear a mask ,  let me play Thisbe too ! 
you must play Pyramus . —And Flute ,  you Thisbe . 	bottom ,  you’re Pyramus . —And Flute ,  you’re Thisbe . 
robin Starveling ,  the tailor ? 	robin Starveling ,  the tailor ? 
here ,  Peter Quince . 	here ,  Peter Quince . 
robin Starveling ,  you must play Thisbe’s mother . —Tom Snout ,  the tinker ? 	robin Starveling ,  you’re going to play Thisbe’s mother . —Tom Snout ,  the handyman . 
here ,  Peter Quince . 	here ,  Peter Quince . 
you ,  Pyramus' father . —Myself ,  Thisbe’s father . —Snug the joiner ,  you ,  the lion’s part . —And I hope here is a play fitted . 	I hope this play is well cast now . 
have you the lion’s part written ? 	do you have the lion’s part written down ? 
pray you ,  if it be ,  give it me ,  for I am slow of study . 	If you do ,  please give it to me ,  because I need to start learning the lines . 
let me play the lion too . 	let me play the lion too . 
and that were enough to hang us all . 	and that would get us all executed . 
that would hang us ,  every mother’s son . 	yeah ,  that would get every single one of us executed . 
I grant you ,  friends ,  if you should fright the ladies out of their wits ,  they would have no more discretion but to hang us . 	well ,  my friends ,  you’ve got to admit that if you scare the living daylights out of the ladies ,  they’d have no choice but to execute us . 
for Pyramus is a sweet - faced man ,  a proper man as one shall see in a summer’s day ,  a most lovely ,  gentlemanlike man . 	because Pyramus is a good - looking man ,  the most handsome man that you could find on a summer’s day ,  a lovely gentlemanly man . 
therefore you must needs play Pyramus . 	so you’re the only one who could play Pyramus . 
well ,  I will undertake it . 	well then ,  I’ll do it . 
what beard were I best to play it in ? 	what kind of beard should I wear for the part ? 
why ,  what you will . 	whatever kind you want ,  I guess . 
four days will quickly steep themselves in night . 	no ,  you’ll see ,  four days will quickly turn into four nights . 
four nights will quickly dream away the time . 	and since we dream at night ,  time passes quickly then . 
and then the moon ,  like to a silver bow New bent in heaven ,  shall behold the night Of our solemnities . 	finally the new moon ,  curved like a silver bow in the sky ,  will look down on our wedding celebration . 
turn melancholy forth to funerals . 	sadness is only appropriate for funerals . 
the pale companion is not for our pomp . 	we don’t want it at our festivities . 
but I will wed thee in another key ,  With pomp ,  with triumph ,  and with reveling . 	but I’ll marry you under different circumstances—with extravagant festivals ,  public festivities ,  and celebration . 
happy be Theseus ,  our renownèd duke . 	long live Theseus ,  our famous and respected duke ! 
I will discharge it in either your straw - color beard ,  your orange - tawny beard ,  your purple - in - grain beard ,  or your French crown - color beard ,  your perfect yellow . 	I’ll play the part wearing either a straw - colored beard ,  or a sandy beard ,  or a red beard ,  or one of those bright yellow beards that’s the color of a French coin . 
there will we rehearse ,  for if we meet in the city we shall be dogged with company ,  and our devices known . 	It’s best to rehearse there ,  because if we do it here in the city ,  we’ll be bothered by crowds of people and everyone will know the plot of our play . 
In the meantime I will draw a bill of properties such as our play wants . 	meanwhile ,  I’ll make a list of props that we’ll need for the play . 
I pray you ,  fail me not . 	don’t leave me in the lurch . 
we will meet ,  and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously . 	we’ll be there ,  and there we’ll rehearse courageously and wonderfully ,  truly obscenely . 
adieu . 	goodbye . 
at the duke’s oak we meet . 	we’ll meet at the giant oak tree in the duke’s forest . 
enough . 	got it ? 
hold ,  or cut bowstrings . 	be there ,  or don’t show your face again . 
how now ,  spirit ? 	hello ,  spirit ! 
whither wander you ? 	where are you going ? 
over hill ,  over dale ,   Thorough bush ,  thorough brier ,   Over park ,  over pale ,   Thorough flood ,  thorough fire . 	I go over hills and valleys ,  through bushes and thorns ,  over parks and fenced - in spaces ,  through water and fire . 
I do wander everywhere  Swifter than the moon’s sphere . 	I wander everywhere faster than the moon revolves around the Earth . 
and I serve the fairy queen  To dew her orbs upon the green . 	I work for Titania ,  the Fairy Queen ,  and organize fairy dances for her in the grass . 
the cowslips tall her pensioners be . 	the cowslip flowers are her bodyguards . 
In those freckles live their savors . 	their sweet smells come from those little freckles . 
I must go seek some dewdrops here  And hang a pearl in every cowslip’s ear . 	now I have to go find some dewdrops and hang a pearl earring on every cowslip flower . 
farewell ,  thou lob of spirits . 	goodbye ,  you dumb old spirit . 
I’ll be gone . 	I’ve got to go . 
our queen and all our elves come here anon . 	the queen and her elves will be here soon . 
for Oberon is passing fell and wrath Because that she ,  as her attendant hath A lovely boy stolen from an Indian king . 	he’s furious because she stole an adorable boy from an Indian king . 
and jealous Oberon would have the child Knight of his train ,  to trace the forests wild . 	he wants the child for himself ,  to accompany him on his wanderings through the wild forests . 
but she perforce withholds the lovèd boy ,  Crowns him with flowers ,  and makes him all her joy . 	Instead ,  she puts flowers in the boy’s hair and makes a fuss over him . 
those that  “ Hobgoblin ”  call you ,  and  “ sweet Puck ,  ”  You do their work ,  and they shall have good luck . 	you do their work for them and give them good luck . 
are not you he ? 	that’s you ,  right ? 
thou speak’st aright . 	what you say is true . 
I am that merry wanderer of the night . 	that’s me you’re talking about ,  the playful wanderer of the night . 
and sometime lurk I in a gossip’s bowl In very likeness of a roasted crab ,  And when she drinks ,  against her lips I bob And on her withered dewlap pour the ale . 	when she takes a sip ,  I bob up against her lips and make her spill the drink all over her withered old neck . 
then slip I from her bum ,  down topples she ,  And  “ Tailor !  ”  cries ,  and falls into a cough ,  And then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh ,  And waxen in their mirth ,  and neeze ,  and swear A merrier hour was never wasted there . 	but I slip from underneath her and she falls down ,  crying ,   “ Ow ,  my butt !  ”  and starts coughing ,  and then everyone laughs and has fun . 
but ,  room ,  fairy ! 	but step aside ,  fairy ! 
here comes Oberon . 	here comes Oberon . 
and here my mistress . 	and here’s my mistress ,  Titania . 
would that he were gone ! 	I wish he’d go away ! 
what ,  jealous Oberon ? —Fairies ,  skip hence . 	how  What ,  are you jealous ,  Oberon ? —Fairies ,  let’s get out of here . 
I have forsworn his bed and company . 	I’ve sworn I’ll never sleep with him or talk to him again . 
tarry ,  rash wanton . 	wait just a minute ,  you brazen hussy . 
why art thou here ,  Come from the farthest step of India ? 	the only reason you left India was to come here and see that butch Amazon Hippolyta . 
but that ,  forsooth ,  the bouncing Amazon ,  Your buskined mistress and your warrior love ,  To Theseus must be wedded ,  and you come To give their bed joy and prosperity . 	she was your boot - wearing mistress and your warrior lover ,  and now that she’s getting married to Theseus ,  you’ve come to celebrate their marriage . 
how canst thou thus for shame ,  Titania ,  Knowing I know thy love to Theseus ? 	how can you stand there shamelessly talking about me and Hippolyta ,  when you know that I know about your love for Theseus ? 
glance at my credit with Hippolyta ,  Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night From Perigouna ,  whom he ravishèd ? 	weren’t you the one who made him desert Perigouna in the middle of the night ,  right after he’d raped her ? 
and make him with fair Ægles break his faith ,  With Ariadne and Antiopa ? 	and weren’t you the one who made him cheat on all of his other girlfriends ,  like Aegles ,  Ariadne ,  and Antiopa ? 
these are the forgeries of jealousy . 	these are nothing but jealous lies . 
and never ,  since the middle summer’s spring ,  Met we on hill ,  in dale ,  forest ,  or mead ,  By pavèd fountain ,  or by rushy brook ,  Or in the beachèd margent of the sea ,  To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind ,  But with thy brawls thou hast disturbed our sport . 	we haven’t been able to meet on a hill or in a valley ,  in the forest or a meadow ,  by a pebbly fountain or a rushing stream ,  or on the beach by the ocean without you disturbing us . 
therefore the winds ,  piping to us in vain ,  As in revenge ,  have sucked up from the sea Contagious fogs ,  which falling in the land Have every pelting river made so proud That they have overborne their continents . 	and because you interrupt us so that we can’t dance for them ,  the winds have made fogs rise up out of the sea and fall down on the rivers so that the rivers flood ,  just to get revenge on you . 
the ox hath therefore stretched his yoke in vain ,  The ploughman lost his sweat ,  and the green corn Hath rotted ere his youth attained a beard . 	so all the work that oxen and farmers have done in plowing the fields has been for nothing ,  because the unripe grain has rotted before it was ripe . 
the fold stands empty in the drownèd field ,  And crows are fatted with the murrain flock . 	sheep pens are empty in the middle of the flooded fields ,  and the crows get fat from eating the dead bodies of infected sheep . 
therefore the moon ,  the governess of floods ,  Pale in her anger ,  washes all the air ,  That rheumatic diseases do abound . 	so the pale ,  angry moon ,  who controls the tides ,  fills the air with diseases . 
the spring ,  the summer ,  The childing autumn ,  angry winter change Their wonted liveries ,  and the mazèd world ,  By their increase ,  now knows not which is which . 	spring ,  summer ,  fertile autumn and angry winter have all changed places ,  and now the confused world doesn’t know which is which . 
and this same progeny of evils comes From our debate ,  from our dissension . 	and this is all because of our argument . 
we are their parents and original . 	we are responsible for this . 
do you amend it then . 	do something about it ,  then . 
It lies in you . 	you have the power to fix it . 
why should Titania cross her Oberon ? 	why would Titania want to argue with her Oberon ? 
I do but beg a little changeling boy ,  To be my henchman . 	all I’m asking for is to have that little human boy as part of my crew . 
set your heart at rest . 	get over it . 
the Fairyland buys not the child of me . 	I won’t give up this child for all of Fairyland . 
how long within this wood intend you stay ? 	how long do you plan to stay here in this forest ? 
perchance till after Theseus' wedding day . 	maybe until after Theseus’s wedding day . 
If you will patiently dance in our round And see our moonlight revels ,  go with us . 	If you behave yourself and join us in our circle dance and moonlight celebrations ,  then you can come with us . 
If not ,  shun me ,  and I will spare your haunts . 	If not ,  leave me alone ,  and I’ll stay away from your turf . 
give me that boy and I will go with thee . 	give me that boy and I’ll come with you . 
not for thy fairy kingdom . —Fairies ,  away ! 	not for your entire fairy kingdom . —Come ,  fairies ,  let’s go . 
we shall chide downright ,  if I longer stay . 	we’re going to have an out - and - out brawl if I stay any longer . 
well ,  go thy way . 	well ,  go on your way ,  then . 
thou shalt not from this grove Till I torment thee for this injury . — My gentle Puck ,  come hither . 	you won’t leave this grove until I’ve paid you back for this insult . 
I remember . 	yes ,  I remember . 
that very time I saw (but thou couldst not) Flying between the cold moon and the Earth ,  Cupid all armed . 	you couldn’t see him ,  but I could . 
a certain aim he took At a fair vestal thronèd by the west ,  And loosed his love shaft smartly from his bow As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts . 	he took aim at a beautiful young virgin who was sitting on a throne in the western part of the world ,  and he shot his arrow of love well enough to have pierced a hundred thousand hearts . 
but I might see young Cupid’s fiery shaft Quenched in the chaste beams of the watery moon ,  And the imperial votaress passèd on ,  In maiden meditation ,  fancy - free . 	but I could see that Cupid’s fiery arrow was put out by watery ,  virginal moonbeams ,  so the royal virgin continued her virginal thoughts without being interrupted by thoughts of love . 
yet marked I where the bolt of Cupid fell . 	but I paid attention to where Cupid’s arrow fell . 
It fell upon a little western flower ,  Before milk - white ,  now purple with love’s wound . 	It fell on a little western flower ,  which used to be white as milk but now has turned purple from being wounded by the arrow of love . 
and maidens call it  “ love - in - idleness .  ”  Fetch me that flower . 	young girls call it  “ love - in - idleness .  ”  Bring me that flower . 
the herb I showed thee once . 	I showed it to you once . 
the juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid Will make or man or woman madly dote Upon the next live creature that it sees . 	If its juice is put on someone’s eyelids while they’re asleep ,  that person will fall in love with the next living creature he or she sees . 
fetch me this herb ,  and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can swim a league . 	bring me this plant ,  and get back here before the sea monster has time to swim three miles . 
I’ll put a girdle round about the Earth In forty minutes . 	I could go around the world in forty minutes . 
having once this juice ,  I’ll watch Titania when she is asleep And drop the liquor of it in her eyes . 	when I have the juice of that flower ,  I’ll trickle some drops of it on Titania’s eyes while she’s sleeping . 
the next thing then she waking looks upon— Be it on lion ,  bear ,  or wolf ,  or bull ,  On meddling monkey or on busy ape— She shall pursue it with the soul of love . 	she’ll fall madly in love with the first thing she sees when she wakes up—even if it’s a lion ,  a bear ,  a wolf ,  a bull ,  a monkey ,  or an ape . 
and ere I take this charm from of her sight— As I can take it with another herb— I’ll make her render up her page to me . 	and before I make her normal again—I can cure her by treating her with another plant—I’ll make her give me that little boy as my page . 
but who comes here ? 	but who’s that coming this way ? 
I love thee not ,  therefore pursue me not . 	look ,  I don’t love you ,  so stop following me around . 
where is Lysander and fair Hermia ? 	where are Lysander and beautiful Hermia ? 
the one I’ll stay ,  the other stayeth me . 	lysander I want to stop ,  but Hermia stops my heart from beating . 
thou told’st me they were stol'n unto this wood . 	you told me they escaped into this forest . 
and here am I ,  and wood within this wood ,  Because I cannot meet my Hermia . 	and here I am ,  going crazy in the middle of the woods because I can’t find my Hermia . 
hence ,  get thee gone ,  and follow me no more . 	go away ,  get out of here ,  and stop following me . 
you draw me ,  you hard - hearted adamant . 	you attract me to you ,  you cruel magnet ! 
but yet you draw not iron ,  for my heart Is true as steel . 	but you must not attract iron ,  because my heart is as true as steel . 
leave you your power to draw ,  And I shall have no power to follow you . 	If you let go of your power to attract me ,  I won’t have any power to follow you . 
do I entice you ? 	do I ask you to follow me ? 
do I speak you fair ? 	do I speak to you kindly ? 
or rather ,  do I not in plainest truth Tell you I do not ,  nor I cannot ,  love you ? 	don’t I tell you in the clearest terms that I do not and cannot love you ? 
and even for that do I love you the more . 	yes ,  but that makes me love you even more . 
I am your spaniel . 	I’m your little dog ,  Demetrius . 
and ,  Demetrius ,  The more you beat me ,  I will fawn on you . 	the more you beat me ,  the more I’ll love you . 
use me but as your spaniel—spurn me ,  strike me ,  Neglect me ,  lose me . 	treat me like you would treat a dog—kick me ,  hit me ,  neglect me ,  try to lose me . 
only give me leave ,  Unworthy as I am ,  to follow you . 	just let me follow behind you ,  even though I’m not good enough for you . 
for I am sick when I do look on thee . 	just looking at you makes me sick . 
and I am sick when I look not on you . 	and I get sick when I can’t look at you . 
your virtue is my privilege . 	I rely on your virtue to protect me . 
nor doth this wood lack worlds of company ,  For you in my respect are all the world . 	this forest doesn’t seem deserted when you’re here ,  because you are all the world to me . 
then how can it be said I am alone When all the world is here to look on me ? 	so how can anyone say I’m alone ,  when the whole world is here to look at me ? 
I’ll run from thee and hide me in the brakes ,  And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts . 	I’ll run away from you and hide in the bushes ,  and leave you to the mercy of wild animals . 
the wildest hath not such a heart as you . 	the wildest animal isn’t as cruel as you are . 
let me go . 	leave me alone . 
or if thou follow me ,  do not believe But I shall do thee mischief in the wood . 	or if you follow me ,  you’d better understand that I’ll do something bad to you in the forest . 
ay ,  in the temple ,  in the town ,  the field You do me mischief . 	yes ,  you already hurt me in the church ,  in the town ,  and in the fields . 
fie ,  Demetrius ! 	shame on you ,  Demetrius ! 
your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex . 	your behavior is an insult to all women . 
we cannot fight for love as men may do . 	we cannot fight for love as men can . 
I’ll follow thee and make a heaven of hell ,  To die upon the hand I love so well . 	I’ll follow you and turn this hell I’m in into a kind of heaven . 
fare thee well ,  nymph . 	goodbye ,  nymph . 
ere he do leave this grove ,  Thou shalt fly him and he shall seek thy love . 	before he leaves this part of the forest ,  you’ll change places: you’ll be the one running away ,  and he’ll be in love with you . 
hast thou the flower there ? 	do you have the flower ? 
welcome ,  wanderer . 	welcome ,  traveler . 
ay ,  there it is . 	yes ,  here it is . 
I pray thee ,  give it me . 	please ,  give it to me . 
thanks ,  good Egeus . 	thanks ,  good Egeus . 
what’s the news with thee ? 	what’s new with you ? 
full of vexation come I with complaint Against my child ,  my daughter Hermia . — Stand forth ,  Demetrius . —My noble lord ,  This man hath my consent to marry her . — Stand forth ,  Lysander . —And my gracious duke ,  This man hath bewitched the bosom of my child . — Thou ,  thou ,  Lysander ,  thou hast given her rhymes ,  And interchanged love tokens with my child . 	I’m here ,  full of anger ,  to complain about my daughter Hermia . —Step forward ,  Demetrius . —My lord ,  this man ,  Demetrius ,  has my permission to marry her . —Step forward ,  Lysander . —But this other man ,  Lysander ,  has cast a magic spell over my child’s heart . —You ,  you ,  Lysander ,  you’ve given her poems ,  and exchanged tokens of love with my daughter . 
thou hast by moonlight at her window sung With feigning voice verses of feigning love ,  And stol'n the impression of her fantasy With bracelets of thy hair ,  rings ,  gauds ,  conceits ,  Knacks ,  trifles ,  nosegays ,  sweetmeats—messengers Of strong prevailment in unhardened youth . 	you’ve pretended to be in love with her ,  singing fake love songs softly at her window by moonlight ,  and you’ve captured her imagination by giving her locks of your hair ,  rings ,  toys ,  trinkets ,  knickknacks ,  little presents ,  flowers ,  and candies—things that can really influence an impressionable young person . 
with cunning hast thou filched my daughter’s heart ,  Turned her obedience (which is due to me) To stubborn harshness . —And ,  my gracious duke ,  Be it so she will not here before your grace Consent to marry with Demetrius ,  I beg the ancient privilege of Athens . 	you’ve connived to steal my daughter’s heart ,  making her stubborn and harsh instead of obedient (like she should be) . —And ,  my gracious duke ,  if she won’t agree to marry Demetrius right now ,  I ask you to let me exercise the right that all fathers have in Athens . 
as she is mine ,  I may dispose of her— Which shall be either to this gentleman Or to her death—according to our law Immediately provided in that case . 	since she belongs to me ,  I can do what I want with her—as the law says: I can either make her marry Demetrius—or have her killed . 
what say you ,  Hermia ? 	what do you have to say for yourself ,  Hermia ? 
demetrius is a worthy gentleman . 	demetrius is an admirable man . 
there sleeps Titania sometime of the night ,  Lulled in these flowers with dances and delight . 	titania sleeps there sometimes at night ,  lulled to sleep among the flowers by dances and other delights . 
and there the snake throws her enameled skin ,  Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in . 	snakes shed their skin there ,  and the shed skin is wide enough to wrap a fairy in . 
and with the juice of this I’ll streak her eyes And make her full of hateful fantasies . 	I’ll put the juice of this flower on Titania’s eyes ,  and fill her with horrible delusions and desires . 
fear not ,  my lord . 	don’t worry ,  sir . 
your servant shall do so . 	I’m at your service . 
hence ,  away ! 	okay ,  let’s go ! 
now all is well . 	everything’s fine now . 
one aloof stand sentinel . 	one of us will stay and stand guard . 
what thou seest when thou dost wake ,  Do it for thy true love take . 	whatever you see first when you wake up ,  think of it as your true love . 
wake when some vile thing is near . 	wake up when something nasty is nearby . 
be it so ,  Lysander . 	let’s do that ,  Lysander . 
find you out a bed ,  For I upon this bank will rest my head . 	I’m going to rest my head on this little slope . 
one heart ,  one bed ,  two bosoms ,  and one troth . 	we’ll have one heart ,  one bed ,  two bodies ,  and one faithful vow . 
nay ,  good Lysander . 	no ,  Lysander . 
do not lie so near . 	don’t sleep so close to me . 
I mean that my heart unto yours is knit So that but one heart we can make of it . 	I just meant that our hearts are joined ,  so we can almost think of them as one heart . 
then by your side no bed room me deny . 	so let me sleep next to you . 
and ,  good night ,  sweet friend . 	stay away for now ,  and good night ,  my sweet friend . 
thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end ! 	I hope your love for me remains this strong for your entire life ! 
amen ,  amen to that fair prayer ,  say I . 	amen to that . 
here is my bed . 	I’ll sleep over here . 
pretty soul ! 	stop ,  Demetrius ! 
stay ,  though thou kill me ,  sweet Demetrius . 	stop ,  even if only to kill me . 
I charge thee ,  hence ,  and do not haunt me thus . 	I’m telling you ,  get out of here ,  and don’t follow me around like this . 
o ,  wilt thou darkling leave me ? 	oh ,  will you leave me alone in the dark ? 
do not so . 	don’t . 
stay ,  on thy peril . 	stay here at your own risk . 
I alone will go . 	I’m going on alone . 
oh ,  I am out of breath in this fond chase . 	oh ,  I’m out of breath from this foolish chase . 
the more my prayer ,  the lesser is my grace . 	the more I pray ,  the less I get out of it . 
happy is Hermia ,  wheresoe'er she lies ,  For she hath blessèd and attractive eyes . 	hermia is lucky ,  wherever she is ,  because she has beautiful eyes . 
how came her eyes so bright ? 	how did her eyes get so bright ? 
not with salt tears . 	not from crying . 
If so ,  my eyes are oftener washed than hers . 	If that’s the case ,  tears wash my eyes more than hers . 
no ,  no ,  I am as ugly as a bear ,  For beasts that meet me run away for fear . 	no ,  no ,  I’m as ugly as a bear ,  since animals that see me run away in terror . 
therefore no marvel though Demetrius Do ,  as a monster ,  fly my presence thus . 	so it’s no surprise that Demetrius runs away from me as if I were a monster . 
what wicked and dissembling glass of mine Made me compare with Hermia’s sphery eyne ? 	what evil and deceitful mirror made me think I could rival Hermia’s starry eyes ? 
do not say so ,  Lysander . 	don’t say that ,  Lysander . 
say not so . 	don’t say that . 
what though he love your Hermia ? 	why do you care that he loves Hermia ? 
lord ,  what though ? 	what does it matter ? 
content with Hermia ? 	happy with Hermia ? 
no . 	no . 
I do repent The tedious minutes I with her have spent . 	I regret all the boring time I wasted with her . 
not Hermia but Helena I love . 	I don’t love Hermia; I love Helena . 
things growing are not ripe until their season . 	fruits and vegetables don’t ripen until the right season of the year . 
so I ,  being young ,  till now ripe not to reason . 	likewise ,  I’m young ,  and my sense of reason has just ripened . 
Is ’t not enough ,  is ’t not enough ,  young man ,  That I did never ,  no ,  nor never can ,  Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye ,  But you must flout my insufficiency ? 	Is it not enough ,  is it not enough ,  young man ,  that I’ll never be pretty enough to get a kind look from Demetrius ? 
good troth ,  you do me wrong ,  good sooth ,  you do ,  In such disdainful manner me to woo . 	do you have to harp on my inadequacy ? 
but fare you well . 	but goodbye . 
perforce I must confess I thought you lord of more true gentleness . 	I have to tell you ,  I thought you were a much kinder person than this . 
oh ,  that a lady of one man refused Should of another therefore be abused ! 	oh ,  how awful that a lady who’s been rejected by one man should therefore be treated horribly by another one ! 
are we all met ? 	are we all here ? 
pat ,  pat . 	right on time . 
and here’s a marvelous convenient place for our rehearsal . 	this is the perfect place to rehearse . 
this green plot shall be our stage ,  this hawthorn - brake our tiring - house ,  and we will do it in action as we will do it before the duke . 	this clearing will be the stage ,  and this hawthorn bush will be our dressing room . 
peter Quince— What sayest thou ,  bully Bottom ? 	peter Quince— What is it ,  jolly Bottom ? 
there are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisbe that will never please . 	there are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisbe that will never work . 
first ,  Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself ,  which the ladies cannot abide . 	first of all ,  Pyramus has to take out a sword to kill himself ,  which the ladies in the audience won’t be able to stand . 
how answer you that ? 	what should we do about that ? 
I believe we must leave the killing out ,  when all is done . 	I think we’ll have to leave out all the killing ,  come to think of it . 
not a whit . 	not at all ! 
I have a device to make all well . 	I’ve got a plan that will fix everything . 
write me a prologue ,  and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm with our swords ,  and that Pyramus is not killed indeed . 	I’ll tell them that we won’t hurt anyone with our swords ,  and that Pyramus isn’t really dead . 
and for the more better assurance ,  tell them that I ,  Pyramus ,  am not Pyramus ,  but Bottom the weaver . 	and to make it even clearer ,  we can tell them that I’m playing Pyramus but I’m not really Pyramus—really ,  I’m Bottom the weaver . 
this will put them out of fear . 	that’ll keep them from being afraid . 
well . 	all right ,  we’ll have a prologue then . 
we will have such a prologue ,  and it shall be written in eight and six . 	we’ll write it in alternating eight -  and six - syllable lines ,  just like in a ballad . 
no ,  make it two more . 	no ,  add a couple more syllables . 
let it be written in eight and eight . 	make it eight and eight . 
will not the ladies be afeard of the lion ? 	won’t the ladies be scared of the lion ? 
I fear it ,  I promise you . 	I’m really worried about that . 
for there is not a more fearful wildfowl than your lion living . 	there’s no scarier wild bird than the living lion ,  and we should remember that . 
therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion . 	so we need another prologue to tell everyone he’s not a real lion . 
nay ,  you must name his name ,  and half his face must be seen through the lion’s neck . 	no ,  we can just announce the actor’s name ,  and let his face show through the lion costume ,  and have him say something himself . 
for ,  you know ,  Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight . 	because ,  you know ,  Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight . 
so is Lysander . 	so is Lysander . 
In himself he is . 	you’re right ,  Lysander’s admirable too . 
but in this kind ,  wanting your father’s voice ,  The other must be held the worthier . 	but since your father doesn’t want him to marry you ,  you have to consider Demetrius to be the better man . 
I would my father looked but with my eyes . 	I wish my father could see them with my eyes . 
rather your eyes must with his judgment look . 	no ,  you must see them as your father sees them . 
I do entreat your grace to pardon me . 	your grace ,  please forgive me . 
I know not by what power I am made bold Nor how it may concern my modesty In such a presence here to plead my thoughts ,  But I beseech your grace that I may know The worst that may befall me in this case ,  If I refuse to wed Demetrius . 	but please ,  tell me the worst thing that could happen to me if I refuse to marry Demetrius . 
therefore ,  fair Hermia ,  question your desires . 	so think carefully about what you want ,  beautiful Hermia . 
know of your youth . 	consider how young you are ,  and question your feelings . 
doth the moon shine that night we play our play ? 	will the moon be shining on the night we’re performing our play ? 
a calendar ,  a calendar ! 	we need a calendar ! 
look in the almanac . 	look in the almanac . 
find out moonshine ,  find out moonshine ! 	look up moonshine ,  look up moonshine ! 
what say you ,  Bottom ? 	what do you think ,  Bottom ? 
and let him hold his fingers thus ,  and through that cranny shall Pyramus and Thisbe whisper . 	he can hold his fingers in a V - shape like this ,  and Pyramus and Thisbe can whisper to each other through that little crack . 
If that may be then all is well . 	If we can do that ,  everything will be all right . 
come ,  sit down ,  every mother’s son ,  and rehearse your parts . —Pyramus ,  you begin . 	now sit down ,  everybody ,  and rehearse your parts—Pyramus ,  you start . 
when you have spoken your speech ,  enter into that brake . —And so everyone according to his cue . 	when you have said your lines ,  go hide in that bush . —Everyone else ,  go there too when you’re not onstage . 
speak ,  Pyramus . —Thisbe ,  stand forth . 	speak ,  Pyramus . —Thisbe ,  come forward . 
ay ,  marry ,  must you . 	yes ,  you are . 
for you must understand he goes but to see a noise that he heard ,  and is to come again . 	you’re supposed to show that you understand that Pyramus just went to check on a noise he heard and is coming right back . 
ninus' tomb ,  ”  man . 	that’s  “ Ninus’s grave ,  ”  man . 
why ,  you must not speak that yet . 	and don’t say all of that yet . 
you speak all your part at once ,  cues and all . —Pyramus ,  enter . 	you just said all your lines at once ,  cues and all . —Pyramus ,  enter . 
It is  “ never tire .  ”  Oh . 	It’s  “ never get tired .  ”  Oh ! 
oh ,  monstrous ! 	help ! 
oh ,  strange ! 	It’s a monster ! 
we are haunted . 	we’re being haunted . 
fly ,  masters ! 	run ,  everyone ,  run ! 
I’ll follow you . 	I’ll follow you . 
sometime a horse I’ll be ,  sometime a hound ,  A hog ,  a headless bear ,  sometime a fire . 	sometimes I’ll turn into fire ! 
and neigh ,  and bark ,  and grunt ,  and roar ,  and burn ,  Like horse ,  hound ,  hog ,  bear ,  fire ,  at every turn . 	and I’ll neigh like a horse and bark like a hound and grunt like a pig and roar like a bear and burn like a fire at every turn . 
why do they run away ? 	why are they running away ? 
o Bottom ,  thou art changed ! 	oh ,  Bottom ,  you’ve changed ! 
what do I see on thee ? 	what have you got on your head ? 
what do you see ? 	what do you think I’ve got on my head ? 
you see an ass head of your own ,  do you ? 	you’re acting like an ass ,  don’t you think ? 
bless thee ,  Bottom ,  bless thee . 	god bless you ,  Bottom ,  God bless you . 
thou art translated . 	reborn . 
but I will not stir from this place ,  do what they can . 	but I won’t leave this spot ,  no matter what they do . 
I will walk up and down here and I will sing ,  that they shall hear I am not afraid . 	I’ll walk up and down and sing a song ,  so they’ll know I’m not afraid . 
for indeed ,  who would set his wit to so foolish a bird ? 	who’d waste his time talking to such a stupid bird ? 
methinks ,  mistress ,  you should have little reason for that . 	I don’t think you’ve got much of a reason to love me . 
and yet ,  to say the truth ,  reason and love keep little company together nowadays . 	but to tell you the truth ,  reason and love have very little to do with each other these days . 
the more the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends . 	It’s too bad some mutual friend of theirs doesn’t introduce them . 
thou art as wise as thou art beautiful . 	you’re as wise as you are beautiful . 
not so ,  neither . 	no ,  that’s not true . 
but if I had wit enough to get out of this wood ,  I have enough to serve mine own turn . 	but if I were smart enough to get out of this forest ,  I’d be wise enough to satisfy myself . 
I am a spirit of no common rate . 	I’m no ordinary fairy . 
therefore go with me . 	so come with me . 
and I will purge thy mortal grossness so That thou shalt like an airy spirit go . — Peaseblossom ,  Cobweb ,  Moth ,  and Mustardseed ! 	and I’ll turn you into a spirit like us ,  so you won’t die as humans do . —Come here ,  Peaseblossom ,  Cobweb ,  Moth ,  and Mustardseed ! 
ready . 	ready . 
and I . 	me too . 
and I . 	me too . 
and I . 	and me too . 
where shall we go ? 	where should we go ? 
be kind and courteous to this gentleman . 	be kind and polite to this gentleman . 
hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes . 	leap and dance for him . 
feed him with apricoks and dewberries ,  With purple grapes ,  green figs ,  and mulberries . 	feed him apricots and blackberries ,  with purple grapes ,  green figs ,  and mulberries . 
and pluck the wings from painted butterflies To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes . 	pluck off colorful butterfly wings ,  and use them to fan moonbeams away from his eyes as he sleeps . 
nod to him ,  elves ,  and do him courtesies . 	bow to him ,  fairies ,  and curtsy to him . 
hail ,  mortal . 	hello ,  mortal ! 
hail . 	hello ! 
hail . 	hello ! 
hail . 	hello ! 
I cry your worships' mercy ,  heartily . —I beseech your worship’s name . 	I beg your pardon ,  sirs . —Please tell me your name ,  sir ? 
cobweb . 	cobweb . 
I shall desire you of more acquaintance ,  good Master Cobweb . 	I’d like to get to know you better ,  Mr .  Cobweb . 
If I cut my finger ,  I shall make bold with you . — Your name ,  honest gentleman ? 	If I cut my finger ,  I’ll use you as a bandage to stop the bleeding . —And your name ,  sir ? 
peaseblossom . 	peaseblossom . 
I pray you ,  commend me to Mistress Squash ,  your mother ,  and to Master Peascod ,  your father . 	please ,  give my regards to your mother ,  Mrs .  Peapod ,  and your father ,  Mr .  Peapod . 
good Master Peaseblossom ,  I shall desire you of more acquaintance too . — Your name ,  I beseech you ,  sir ? 	good Mr .  Peaseblossom ,  I’d like to get to know you better too . —And you ,  may I ask what your name is ,  sir ? 
mustardseed . 	mustardseed . 
good Master Mustardseed ,  I know your patience well . 	good Mr .  Mustardseed ,  I know you very well . 
that same cowardly ,  giantlike ox - beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house . 	those cowardly ,  gigantic sides of beef have been responsible for many of your family members getting eaten as a condiment on beef . 
I promise you your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now . 	I swear to you ,  many members of your mustard family have made my eyes water before . 
I desire you of more acquaintance ,  good Master Mustardseed . 	I look forward to getting to know you better ,  Mr .  Mustardseed . 
come ,  wait upon him . 	take good care of him . 
lead him to my bower . 	take him to my sleeping area . 
the moon methinks looks with a watery eye . 	the moon looks sad to me . 
and when she weeps ,  weeps every little flower ,  Lamenting some enforcèd chastity . 	when she cries ,  all the little flowers cry too . 
tie up my love’s tongue . 	keep my lover quiet . 
bring him silently . 	bring him to me in silence . 
here comes my messenger . —How now ,  mad spirit ? 	ah ,  here comes my messenger . —What’s going on ,  you crazy spirit ? 
what night - rule now about this haunted grove ? 	what havoc have you wreaked in this part of the forest ? 
my mistress with a monster is in love . 	my mistress Titania is in love with a monster . 
I led them on in this distracted fear And left sweet Pyramus translated there . 	I led them on in this frightened ,  distracted state ,  and left sweet
when in that moment so it came to pass ,  Titania waked and straightway loved an ass . 	at that exact moment ,  Titania woke up and immediately fell in love with him ,  an ass . 
this falls out better than I could devise . 	this is going even better than I planned . 
but hast thou yet latched the Athenian’s eyes With the love juice ,  as I did bid thee do ? 	but have you put the love juice from the flower on the eyes of that Athenian ,  as I asked you to do ? 
I took him sleeping—that is finished too— And the Athenian woman by his side ,  That ,  when he waked ,  of force she must be eyed . 	yes ,  I found him when he was asleep—so that’s taken care of too—and the Athenian woman was sleeping near him . 
oh ,  why rebuke you him that loves you so ? 	why are you so rude to someone who loves you so much ? 
lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe . 	save that kind of harsh language for your worst enemy . 
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep ,  Being o'er shoes in blood ,  plunge in the deep ,  And kill me too . 	If you killed Lysander while he was sleeping ,  then you’re already up to your ankles in blood . 
the sun was not so true unto the day As he to me . 	he was more faithful to me than the sun is to the daytime . 
would he have stolen away From sleeping Hermia ? 	would he have snuck away from me while I was asleep ? 
It cannot be but thou hast murdered him . 	the only possibility is that you’ve murdered him . 
so should a murderer look ,  so dead ,  so grim . 	a murderer should look like you do ,  so pale and grim . 
so should the murdered look ,  and so should I ,  Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty . 	that’s how someone who’s been murdered should look ,  and that’s how I look . 
yet you ,  the murderer ,  look as bright ,  as clear ,  As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere . 	you’ve pierced me through the heart with your cruelty ,  and yet you ,  the murderer ,  look as bright and clear as a star in the sky . 
what’s this to my Lysander ? 	what does that have to do with my Lysander ? 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
ah ,  good Demetrius ,  wilt thou give him me ? 	oh ,  good Demetrius ,  will you find him for me ? 
hast thou slain him then ? 	did you kill him ,  then ? 
o brave touch ! 	oh ,  how brave of you ! 
could not a worm ,  an adder ,  do so much ? 	a snake could do that as easily as you could . 
an adder did it ,  for with doubler tongue Than thine ,  thou serpent ,  never adder stung . 	a snake did do it ,  because no snake ever had a more forked ,  lying tongue than you have . 
I am not guilty of Lysander’s blood . 	I didn’t kill Lysander . 
nor is he dead ,  for aught that I can tell . 	as far as I know ,  he’s not even dead . 
I pray thee ,  tell me then that he is well . 	then please tell me he’s all right . 
an if I could ,  what should I get therefore ? 	If I told you that ,  what would I get out of it ? 
relent ,  sweet Hermia—And ,  Lysander ,  yield Thy crazèd title to my certain right . 	please give in ,  sweet Hermia . —And Lysander ,  stop acting like she’s yours . 
you have her father’s love ,  Demetrius . 	her father loves you ,  Demetrius . 
and she is mine ,  and all my right of her I do estate unto Demetrius . 	she’s mine ,  and I’m giving her to Demetrius . 
a privilege never to see me more . 	the privilege of never seeing me again . 
and from thy hated presence part I so . 	and now I’m going to leave your despised company . 
see me no more ,  whether he be dead or no . 	you’ll never see me again ,  whether or not he’s dead . 
here therefore for a while I will remain . 	so I’ll stay here for a while . 
and laid the love juice on some true love’s sight . 	that’s the way of the world . 
about the wood go swifter than the wind ,  And Helena of Athens look thou find— All fancy - sick she is and pale of cheer ,  With sighs of love ,  that costs the fresh blood dear . 	go around the forest ,  moving faster than the wind ,  and make sure you find Helena of Athens . —She’s lovesick ,  and her face is pale from all the sighing she’s been doing ,  because sighing is bad for the blood . 
flower of this purple dye ,  Hit with Cupid’s archery ,  Sink in apple of his eye . 	you purple flower ,  hit by Cupid’s arrow ,  sink into the pupils of this man’s eyes . 
when thou wakest ,  if she be by ,  Beg of her for remedy . 	young man ,  when you wake up ,  if she’s nearby ,  beg her to cure your lovesickness . 
shall we their fond pageant see ? 	should we watch this ridiculous scene ? 
lord ,  what fools these mortals be ! 	lord ,  what fools these mortals are ! 
stand aside . 	step aside . 
the noise they make Will cause Demetrius to awake . 	the noise they’re making will wake up Demetrius . 
then will two at once woo one . 	then the two of them will both pursue one girl . 
why should you think that I should woo in scorn ? 	why do you think I’m making fun of you when I tell you I love you ? 
look ,  when I vow ,  I weep . 	people don’t cry when they’re mocking someone . 
how can these things in me seem scorn to you ,  Bearing the badge of faith to prove them true ? 	how can it seem like I’m making fun of you ,  when my tears prove that I’m sincere ? 
you do advance your cunning more and more . 	you get trickier and trickier . 
will you give her o'er ? 	will you abandon her ? 
demetrius loves her ,  and he loves not you . 	demetrius loves her ,  and he doesn’t love you . 
crystal is muddy . 	damn it ! 
I see you all are bent To set against me for your merriment . 	I see you’re all determined to gang up on me for a few laughs . 
you are unkind ,  Demetrius . 	you’re competing for
be not so . 	don’t be cruel ,  Demetrius . 
and yours of Helena to me bequeath ,  Whom I do love and will do till my death . 	In exchange ,  give up your claim to love Helena ,  since I love her and will love her until I die . 
lysander ,  keep thy Hermia . 	lysander ,  keep your Hermia . 
I will none . 	I don’t want her . 
helen ,  it is not so . 	helena ,  it’s not true . 
look ,  where thy love comes . 	look ,  here comes the woman you love . 
dark night ,  that from the eye his function takes ,  The ear more quick of apprehension makes . 	It’s hard to see clearly in the dark of night ,  but it’s easier to hear well . 
thou art not by mine eye ,  Lysander ,  found . 	I couldn’t see you ,  Lysander ,  but I heard your voice ,  and that’s how I found you . 
mine ear ,  I thank it ,  brought me to thy sound But why unkindly didst thou leave me so ? 	why did you leave me alone so unkindly ? 
why should he stay ,  whom love doth press to go ? 	why stay when love tells you to go ? 
what love could press Lysander from my side ? 	but what love could make my Lysander leave me ? 
lysander’s love ,  that would not let him bide ,  Fair Helena ,  who more engilds the night Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light . 	I had to hurry to my love ,  beautiful Helena ,  who lights up the night better than all those fiery stars . 
why seek’st thou me ? 	why are you looking for me ? 
could not this make thee know The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so ? 	didn’t you figure out that I left you because I hate you ? 
you speak not as you think . 	you can’t mean what you’re saying . 
It cannot be . 	It’s impossible . 
lo ,  she is one of this confederacy ! 	so ,  she’s in on this too ! 
now I perceive they have conjoined all three To fashion this false sport ,  in spite of me . — Injurious Hermia ! 	now I see that all three of them have gotten together to play this cruel trick on me . 
Is all the counsel that we two have shared ,  The sisters' vows ,  the hours that we have spent When we have chid the hasty - footed time For parting us—oh ,  is it all forgot ? 	have you forgotten all the talks we’ve had together ,  the vows we made to be like sisters to one another ,  all the hours we spent together ,  wishing that we never had to say goodbye—have you forgotten ? 
all schooldays' friendship ,  childhood innocence ? 	our friendship in our schooldays ,  our childhood innocence ? 
we ,  Hermia ,  like two artificial gods ,  Have with our needles created both one flower ,  Both on one sampler ,  sitting on one cushion ,  Both warbling of one song ,  both in one key ,  As if our hands ,  our sides ,  voices ,  and minds ,  Had been incorporate . 	we used to sit together and sew one flower with our two needles ,  sewing it on one piece of cloth ,  sitting on the same cushion ,  singing one song in the same key ,  as if our hands ,  our sides ,  our voices and our minds were stuck together . 
so we grew together ,  Like to a double cherry—seeming parted But yet an union in partition— Two lovely berries molded on one stem;	we grew together like twin cherries—which seemed to be separate but were also together—two lovely cherries on one stem . 
disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes ,  Misprizing what they look on ,  and her wit Values itself so highly that to her All matter else seems weak . 	there is scorn and disdain in her eyes ,  and those sparkling eyes despise everything they look upon . 
she cannot love Nor take no shape nor project of affection She is so self - endeared . 	she can’t even imagine what  “ love ”  is . 
sure ,  I think so ,  And therefore certainly it were not good She knew his love ,  lest she make sport at it . 	It would be bad if she knew about Benedick’s love and teased him about it . 
why ,  you speak truth . 	It’s true . 
so turns she every man the wrong side out And never gives to truth and virtue that Which simpleness and merit purchaseth . 	and so she turns men inside out and never acknowledges the integrity and merit that a man has . 
but who dare tell her so ? 	but who would dare tell her ? 
If I should speak ,  She would mock me into air . 	If I said something ,  she’d mock me so mercilessly that I’d probably disintegrate into air . 
o ,  she would laugh me Out of myself ,  press me to death with wit . 	she’d laugh me right out of my body and kill me with her wit . 
therefore let Benedick ,  like covered fire ,  Consume away in sighs ,  waste inwardly . 	like a fire that gets covered up ,  Benedick should smother his love and waste away . 
It were a better death than die with mocks ,  Which is as bad as die with tickling . 	It would be better to die that way than to die from being mocked ,  which is as bad as being killed by tickling . 
no ,  rather I will go to Benedick And counsel him to fight against his passion; And truly I’ll devise some honest slanders To stain my cousin with . 	no ,  instead I’ll go to Benedick and advise him to fight his emotions . 
one doth not know How much an ill word may empoison liking . 	you don’t know how quickly affection can be killed with a single nasty word . 
o ,  do not do your cousin such a wrong ! 	oh ,  don’t injure your cousin like that ! 
she cannot be so much without true judgment ,  Having so swift and excellent a wit As she is prized to have ,  as to refuse So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick . 	with the quick ,  intelligent wit she’s rumored to have ,  she can’t really be such a bad judge of character that she’d refuse a man as exceptional as Signior Benedick . 
he is the only man of Italy ,  Always excepted my dear Claudio . 	he’s the only worthy man in Italy ,  aside from my dear Claudio . 
Indeed ,  he hath an excellent good name . 	true ,  he has an excellent reputation . 
his excellence did earn it ,  ere he had it . 	and he deserves it ,  having been excellent before he had a reputation for it . 
when are you married ,  madam ? 	when are you getting married ,  madam ? 
why ,  every day ,  tomorrow . 	tomorrow ,  and then every day after that . 
come ,  go in . 	come on ,  let’s go inside . 
I do but stay till your marriage be consummate ,  and then go I toward Aragon . 	I’ll stay in Messina until you’re married ,  and then I’ll go to Aragon . 
I’ll bring you thither ,  my lord ,  if you’ll vouchsafe me . 	I’ll go with you ,  my lord ,  if you’ll allow me . 
nay ,  that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear it . 	no ,  taking you away from your new marriage would be like showing a child a new coat and then not letting him wear it . 
I will only be bold with Benedick for his company ,  for from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot he is all mirth . 	I’ll ask only Benedick to come with me ,  for from the top of his head to the soles of his feet he’s a joker . 
he hath twice or thrice cut Cupid’s bow - string ,  and the little hangman dare not shoot at him . 	he’s evaded love once or twice ,  and since then Cupid doesn’t dare to shoot at him . 
he hath a heart as sound as a bell ,  and his tongue is the clapper ,  for what his heart thinks ,  his tongue speaks . 	benedick’s heart is like a bell ,  with his tongue as the clapper: everything his heart thinks ,  his tongue speaks . 
gallants ,  I am not as I have been . 	gentleman ,  I am not the same man I was before . 
so say I .  Methinks you are sadder . 	I agree . 
I hope he be in love . 	I hope he’s in love . 
there’s no true drop of blood in him to be truly touched with love . 	there isn’t a single drop of sincerity in him that could be touched with love . 
If he be sad ,  he wants money . 	If he looks serious ,  he must need money . 
what ,  sigh for the toothache ? 	what ,  are you moaning on about your toothache ? 
yet say I ,  he is in love . 	I repeat ,  he’s in love . 
unless he have a fancy to this foolery ,  as it appears he hath ,  he is no fool for fancy ,  as you would have it appear he is . 	unless you’re talking about his love for this kind of foolishness—which ,  judging from his appearance ,  he has—he is no fool for love ,  as you pretend . 
If he be not in love with some woman ,  there is no believing old signs . 	If he’s not in love with a woman ,  then you can’t trust the usual symptoms . 
he brushes his hat o' mornings . 	he brushes his hat in the mornings . 
what should that bode ? 	what do you think that means ? 
hath any man seen him at the barber’s ? 	has any man seen him at the barber’s ? 
no ,  but the barber’s man hath been seen with him ,  and the old ornament of his cheek hath already stuffed tennis balls . 	no ,  but the barber’s assistant has been seen with him . 
nay ,  he rubs himself with civet . 	and he’s rubbed himself with perfume . 
can you smell him out by that ? 	can you smell out his secret now ? 
you embrace your charge too willingly . 	but when  You take up your duties too cheerfully . 
her mother hath many times told me so . 	that’s what her mother always tells me . 
you have it full ,  Benedick . 	ah ,  he got you back ,  Benedick ! 
truly ,  the lady fathers herself . —Be happy ,  lady ,  for you are like an honorable father . 	congratulations ,  lady: you resemble a most honorable man . 
If Signor Leonato be her father ,  she would not have his head on her shoulders for all Messina ,  as like him as she is . 	well ,  even if he is her father ,  I’m sure she wouldn’t want to have the head of the old man on her shoulders ! 
I wonder that you will still be talking ,  Signor Benedick . 	I’m amazed you’re still talking ,  Signior Benedick . 
nobody marks you . 	no one’s listening to you . 
what ,  my dear Lady Disdain ! 	look ,  it’s my dear Lady Disdain ! 
are you yet living ? 	aren’t you dead yet ? 
that’s as much as to say ,  the sweet youth’s in love . 	that’s as good as proof that the sweet young man’s in love . 
the greatest note of it is his melancholy . 	the biggest clue is his seriousness . 
and when was he wont to wash his face ? 	and when has he ever been known to wash his face ? 
yea ,  or to paint himself ? 	yes ,  or to wear cosmetics ? 
for the which I hear what they say of him . 	I hear what they say about him for doing that . 
nay ,  but his jesting spirit ,  which is now crept into a lute string and now governed by stops— Indeed ,  that tells a heavy tale for him . 	Indeed ,  his mocking spirit has now crawled into a  Truly ,  it all adds up to a serious story for Benedick . 
conclude ,  conclude ,  he is in love . 	a conclusion ,  a conclusion: he is in love . 
nay ,  but I know who loves him . 	oh ,  and I know who loves him . 
she shall be buried with her face upwards . 	she’ll be buried with her face upwards ,  then . 
yet is this no charm for the toothache . —Old Signior ,  walk aside with me . 	this chatter is no cure for my toothache . 
tis even so . 	It must be . 
my lord and brother ,  God save you . 	my lord and brother ,  God save you . 
good e'en ,  brother . 	good evening ,  brother . 
If your leisure served ,  I would speak with you . 	If you don’t mind ,  I’d like to speak with you . 
In private ? 	In private ? 
If it please you . 	If you wish . 
yet Count Claudio may hear ,  for what I would speak of concerns him . 	but Count Claudio can stay ,  for what I’m about to say concerns him . 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
you know he does . 	you know that he does . 
I know not that ,  when he knows what I know . 	I don’t know that ,  once he knows what I know . 
If there be any impediment ,  I pray you discover it . 	If there’s any reason we shouldn’t get married ,  I urge you to tell me . 
you may think I love you not . 	you may think that I don’t love you . 
let that appear hereafter ,  and aim better at me by that I now will manifest . 	I hope that ,  after I tell you my news ,  you will think better of me . 
for my brother ,  I think he holds you well ,  and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect your ensuing marriage—surely suit ill spent and labor ill bestowed . 	my brother thinks highly of you ,  and because of his affection ,  has helped arrange your marriage—but that was definitely a waste of his time and energy . 
why ,  what’s the matter ? 	why ,  what’s the matter ? 
I came hither to tell you; and ,  circumstances shortened ,  for she has been too long a - talking of ,  the lady is disloyal . 	I came here to tell you—I’ll make this short ,  since she’s already been talked about for too long—the lady is unfaithful . 
who ,  Hero ? 	who ,  Hero ? 
even she: Leonato’s Hero ,  your Hero ,  every man’s Hero . 	that’s the one: Leonato’s Hero ,  your Hero ,  every man’s Hero . 
disloyal ? 	unfaithful ? 
the word is too good to paint out her wickedness . 	the word is too good to represent her wickedness . 
I could say she were worse . 	she is worse than wicked . 
think you of a worse title ,  and I will fit her to it . 	If you can think of a more awful title ,  I’ll call her that . 
wonder not till further warrant . 	but don’t keep wondering without more proof . 
go but with me tonight ,  you shall see her chamber window entered ,  even the night before her wedding day . 	come with me tonight ,  and you’ll see a man enter her bedroom chamber—even tonight ,  the night before her wedding . 
If you love her then ,  tomorrow wed her . 	If you still love her after that ,  then marry her tomorrow . 
but it would better fit your honor to change your mind . 	but you would be more honorable if you changed your mind . 
I will not think it . 	I won’t consider it . 
If I see anything tonight why I should not marry her ,  tomorrow in the congregation ,  where I should wed ,  there will I shame her . 	If I see anything tonight that convinces me not to marry her ,  I’ll shame her tomorrow in the very congregation where I would have married her . 
and as I wooed for thee to obtain her ,  I will join with thee to disgrace her . 	and since I wooed her in your name ,  I’ll join you in disgracing her . 
bear it coldly but till midnight and let the issue show itself . 	remain calm until midnight ,  and then you’ll see what the trouble is . 
o day untowardly turned ! 	oh ,  this day has turned into a disaster ! 
o mischief strangely thwarting ! 	oh ,  mischief has ruined our plans ! 
o plague right well prevented ! 	oh ,  a plague has been prevented ,  thank God ! 
so will you say when you have seen the sequel . 	that’s what you’ll say once you’ve seen part two . 
are you good men and true ? 	are you all good and honest men ? 
come hither ,  neighbor Seacole . 	come here ,  Sir Seacole . 
god hath blessed you with a good name . 	god has blessed you with a good name . 
to be a well - favored man is the gift of fortune ,  but to write and read comes by nature . 	to be good - looking is a matter of luck ,  but to read and write is a natural gift . 
both which ,  Master Constable— You have . 	both of which ,  master constable— You have . 
I knew it would be your answer . 	I knew that would be your answer . 
well ,  for your favor ,  sir ,  why ,  give God thanks ,  and make no boast of it ,  and for your writing and reading ,  let that appear when there is no need of such vanity . 	well ,  for your good looks ,  sir ,  thank God and don’t boast about it . 
you are thought here to be the most senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch; therefore bear you the lantern . 	you’re thought to be the most
how if he will not stand ? 	you will  And what if he won’t stop ? 
why ,  then ,  take no note of him ,  but let him go and presently call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of a knave . 	then immediately call the rest of the watch together and thank God that you’ve gotten rid of such a criminal . 
If he will not stand when he is bidden ,  he is none of the Prince’s subjects . 	If he won’t stop when he’s told to ,  then he isn’t one of the Prince’s subjects . 
we know what belongs to a watch . 	we know what’s appropriate for a watch . 
why ,  you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman ,  for I cannot see how sleeping should offend . 	why ,  you speak like an experienced and quiet watchman . 
well ,  you are to call at all the alehouses and bid those that are drunk get them to bed . 	also ,  you’re supposed to visit all the bars and tell anyone who’s drunk to go home and go to bed . 
how if they will not ? 	and what if they won’t go ? 
why ,  then ,  let them alone till they are sober . 	well then ,  leave them alone until they’re sober . 
If they make you not then the better answer ,  you may say they are not the men you took them for . 	If even then they don’t answer to your satisfaction ,  you can say that they’re not the men you thought they were . 
well ,  sir . 	very good ,  sir . 
If we know him to be a thief ,  shall we not lay hands on him ? 	so if we know that a man is a thief ,  should we try to arrest him ? 
you ,  constable ,  are to present the Prince’s own person . 	you ,  constable ,  are representing the Prince himself . 
If you meet the Prince in the night ,  you may stay him . 	If you meet the Prince in the night ,  you can order him to stop . 
nay ,  by 'r Lady ,  that I think he cannot . 	no ,  by our Lady ,  I don’t think he can . 
five shillings to one on ’t ,  with any man that knows the statutes ,  he may stay him—marry ,  not without the Prince be willing ,  for indeed the watch ought to offend no man ,  and it is an offense to stay a man against his will . 	I’ll bet any man who knows the law five shillings to one on it . 
by 'r lady ,  I think it be so . 	by our Lady ,  I think that’s true . 
an there be any matter of weight chances ,  call up me . 	and if anything important happens ,  find me and let me know . 
well ,  masters ,  we hear our charge . 	well gentlemen ,  we’ve heard our assignment . 
let us go sit here upon the church bench till two ,  and then all to bed . 	let’s sit here on the church bench until two and then go off to bed . 
one word more ,  honest neighbors . 	one more thing ,  good gentlemen . 
I pray you watch about Signior Leonato’s door ,  for the wedding being there tomorrow ,  there is a great coil tonight . 	watch over Signior Leonato’s house; with the wedding being held there tomorrow ,  there’s a great to - do there tonight . 
adieu ,  be vigitant ,  I beseech you . 	adieu . 
what Conrade ! 	be  Conrade ! 
conrade ,  I say ! 	conrade ,  I say ! 
mass ,  and my elbow itched ,  I thought there would a scab follow . 	come to think of it ,  I thought I felt a scab there . 
I will owe thee an answer for that . 	I’ll get you for that . 
and now forward with thy tale . 	now get on with your story . 
stand thee close ,  then ,  under this penthouse ,  for it drizzles rain ,  and I will ,  like a true drunkard ,  utter all to thee . 	since it’s drizzling ,  stand under this overhang with me and ,  like a true drunk ,  I’ll tell you everything . 
therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats . 	you should know I’ve earned a thousand gold pieces from Don John . 
Is it possible that any villainy should be so dear ? 	Is it possible that any crime could be so valuable ? 
thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villainy should be so rich . 	you should ask instead if it’s possible that any criminal could be so rich . 
for when rich villains have need of poor ones ,  poor ones may make what price they will . 	because when rich villains need poor villains' services ,  those poor ones can name the price . 
I wonder at it . 	I can’t believe it . 
that shows thou art unconfirmed . 	that only proves how inexperienced you are . 
thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet ,  or a hat ,  or a cloak ,  is nothing to a man . 	you know that the style of a man’s jacket or hat or coat means nothing . 
yes ,  it is apparel . 	yes ,  it’s just clothing . 
yes ,  the fashion is the fashion . 	yes ,  fashion is fashion . 
tush ,  I may as well say the fool’s the fool . 	c’mon ,  I might as well say the fool’s the fool ! 
didst thou not hear somebody ? 	but don’t you see what a    Did you hear someone ? 
no ,  ’twas the vane on the house . 	just the weathervane moving . 
but art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too ,  that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion ? 	but you’re all wound up about fashion ,  too . 
not so ,  neither . 	no ,  I’m not wound up . 
but know that I have tonight wooed Margaret ,  the Lady Hero’s gentlewoman ,  by the name of Hero . 	but I will tell you that I seduced Margaret ,  the Lady Hero’s waiting woman ,  tonight . 
I should first tell thee how the Prince ,  Claudio and my master ,  planted and placed and possessed by my master Don John ,  saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter . 	I should backtrack and begin with how my master ,  Don John ,  arranged for the Prince ,  Claudio ,  and himself to witness this friendly encounter from the orchard . 
then is courtesy a turncoat . 	that makes Lady Courtesy a traitor . 
but it is certain I am loved of all ladies ,  only you excepted . 	all ladies love me ,  except you . 
and I would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard heart ,  for truly I love none . 	It’s too bad I’m so hard - hearted ,  because I really don’t love anyone . 
a dear happiness to women . 	women are lucky ,  then . 
they would else have been troubled with a pernicious suitor . 	you would make a nasty suitor . 
I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man swear he loves me . 	I would rather listen to my dog bark at a crow than hear a man swear that he loves me . 
god keep your Ladyship still in that mind ,  so some gentle -  man or other shall ’scape a predestinate scratched face . 	well ,  I hope you stay in that frame of mind or some poor man will end up with his face all scratched up . 
scratching could not make it worse an ’twere such a face as yours were . 	If he has a face like yours ,  a good scratching couldn’t make him look any worse . 
well ,  you are a rare parrot - teacher . 	listen to you ,  instructing me like a parrot would . 
a bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours . 	I’d rather be a squawking bird than an animal like you . 
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue and so good a continuer . 	I wish my horse moved as fast as your mouth and was as tireless . 
I have done . 	that’s it—I’m done . 
you always end with a jade’s trick . 	you always slip out of the argument like this . 
I know you of old . 	I know you from before . 
that is the sum of all ,  Leonato . —Signior Claudio and Signior Benedick ,  my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all . 	and that’s everything ,  Leonato . —Claudio ,  Benedick—my dear friend Leonato has invited you all to stay here at Messina . 
I tell him we shall stay here at the least a month ,  and he heartily prays some occasion may detain us longer . 	I told him we’ll stay for at least a month ,  and he says that he hopes we’ll stay longer . 
I dare swear he is no hypocrite but prays from his heart . 	I think he’s actually serious ,  and not just being polite . 
and thought they Margaret was Hero ? 	and they thought Margaret was Hero ? 
we charge you ,  in the Prince’s name ,  stand ! 	we charge you ,  in the Prince’s name ,  to stop ! 
call up the right Master Constable . 	call up the Master Constable Dogberry . 
we have here recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known in the commonwealth . 	we have  And one of them is the criminal Deformed . 
and one Deformed is one of them . 	I know him; he wears a lock of hair . 
I know him; he wears a lock . 	gentlemen ,  gentlemen—   Gentlemen ,  don’t speak . 
masters ,  masters—   warrant you . 	we
masters ,  never speak ,  we charge you ,  let us obey you go with us . 	we’re probably a very valuable catch for these guys . 
a commodity in question ,  I warrant you . —Come ,  we’ll obey you . 	let’s go ,  we’ll obey you . 
good Ursula ,  wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her to rise . 	good Ursula ,  go wake my cousin and ask her to get up . 
I will ,  lady . 	I will ,  lady . 
and bid her come hither . 	and request that she come here . 
well . 	very well . 
troth ,  I think your other rebato were better . 	really ,  I think your other ruff is better . 
no ,  pray thee ,  good Meg ,  I’ll wear this . 	no ,  please good Meg ,  I’ll wear this one . 
by my troth ,  ’s not so good ,  and I warrant your cousin will say so . 	honestly ,  it’s not as good as the other one ,  and I’m sure your cousin will agree with me . 
my cousin’s a fool ,  and thou art another . 	my cousin’s a fool ,  and you are too . 
I’ll wear none but this . 	I’ll wear this one and none other . 
I like the new tire within excellently ,  if the hair were a thought browner; and your gown’s a most rare fashion ,  i' faith . 	I like your new wig and headdress ,  though I’d like it more if the hair were a shade browner . 
I saw the Duchess of Milan’s gown that they praise so . 	you know ,  I saw the Duchess of Milan’s gown ,  the one that everyone praises so highly . 
oh ,  that exceeds ,  they say . 	oh ,  they say that dress surpasses all others . 
but for a fine ,  quaint ,  graceful ,  and excellent fashion ,  yours is worth ten on ’t . 	but for a fine ,  elegant ,  graceful ,  and excellent dress ,  yours is worth ten of those . 
god give me joy to wear it ,  for my heart is exceeding heavy . 	I hope I enjoy wearing it ,  for my heart is very heavy . 
twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man . 	It will be made even heavier soon—by the weight of a man . 
of what ,  lady ? 	shame of what ,  lady ? 
Is not marriage honorable in a beggar ? 	sex and marriage are honorable things—even for a beggar ,  right ? 
Is not your lord honorable without marriage ? 	and isn’t your husband an honorable man ? 
good morrow ,  sweet Hero . 	good morning ,  sweet Hero . 
why ,  how now ? 	why do you sound so odd ? 
do you speak in the sick tune ? 	are you ill ? 
I am out of all other tune ,  methinks . 	you sound out of tune . 
do you sing it ,  and I’ll dance it . 	you sing ,  and I’ll dance . 
o illegitimate construction ! 	never ! 
these gloves the Count sent me ,  they are an excellent perfume . 	the Count sent me an excellent pair of perfumed gloves . 
I am stuffed ,  cousin . 	sorry ,  I’m all stuffed . 
even since you left it . 	ever since you lost yours . 
doth not my wit become me rarely ? 	doesn’t my wit suit me well ? 
It is not seen enough; you should wear it in your cap . 	It doesn’t get seen enough; you should wear it in your cap ,  the way fools wear coxcombs . 
by my troth ,  I am sick . 	god ,  I’m really sick . 
I meant plain holy thistle . 	I just meant that you should use some holy thistle . 
you may think perchance that I think you are in love . 	maybe you think that I think you’re in love . 
nay ,  by 'r Lady ,  I am not such a fool to think what I list ,  nor I list not to think what I can ,  nor indeed I cannot think ,  if I would think my heart out of thinking ,  that you are in love or that you will be in love or that you can be in love . 	no ,  by Our Lady ,  I’m not such a fool to think what I please ,  and I don’t please to think what I can ,  and in fact I cannot think ,  even if I could think my heart right past thinking ,  that you are in love or that you will be in love or even that you can be in love . 
yet Benedick was such another ,  and now is he become a man . 	but Benedick was once an enemy of love as well ,  and now he’s become a real man . 
he swore he would never marry ,  and yet now ,  in despite of his heart ,  he eats his meat without grudging . 	he swore that he’d never get married ,  but now ,  despite his earlier protestations ,  he loves ungrudgingly . 
and how you may be converted I know not ,  but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do . 	and yet I think you look with your eyes just like every other woman does . 
not a false gallop . 	It’s not a false gallop ,  anyway . 
madam ,  withdraw: the Prince ,  the Count ,  Signor Benedick ,  Don John ,  and all the gallants of the town are come to fetch you to church . 	madam ,  we have to go: the Prince ,  the Count ,  Signior Benedick ,  Don John ,  and all the gentlemen of the town have come to bring you to church . 
help to dress me ,  good coz ,  good Meg ,  good Ursula . 	good cousin ,  good Meg ,  good Ursula ,  come help me get dressed . 
what would you with me ,  honest neighbor ? 	what do you want from me ,  my good man ? 
marry ,  this it is ,  sir . 	Indeed ,  sir ,  it is . 
yes ,  in truth it is ,  sir . 	yes ,  it truly is . 
what is it ,  my good friends ? 	what’s the news ,  my good friends ? 
goodman Verges ,  sir ,  speaks a little off the matter . 	sorry ,  sir ,  Goodman Verges tends to ramble . 
It pleases your Worship to say so ,  but we are the poor duke’s officers . 	thank you for saying that ,  your Worship ,  but we’re just the poor duke’s officers . 
but truly ,  for mine own part ,  if I were as tedious as a king ,  I could find it in my heart to bestow it all of your worship . 	but truly ,  if I were as
all thy tediousness on me ,  ah ? 	oh ,  so you’d give me all your tediousness ? 
yea ,  an ’twere a thousand pound more than ’tis ,  for I hear as good exclamation on your Worship as of any man in the city ,  and though I be but a poor man ,  I am glad to hear it . 	yes ,  even if I had a thousand more pounds than that ,  for I hear that you are  Me ,  too . 
gifts that God gives . 	god gives those gifts—I had nothing to do with it . 
I must leave you . 	now I must return to the wedding . 
one word ,  sir . 	one more thing ,  sir . 
take their examination yourself and bring it me . 	examine them yourselves ,  then bring me your findings . 
I am now in great haste ,  as it may appear unto you . 	now I’m in a great hurry ,  as I’m sure you can see . 
fare you well . 	goodbye . 
my lord ,  they stay for you to give your daughter to her husband . 	my lord ,  they’re waiting for you to give your daughter away to Claudio . 
I am ready . 	I’m coming . 
go ,  good partner ,  go ,  get you to Francis Seacole . 	go to Francis Seacole ,  the constable of the watch . 
bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the jail . 	tell him to bring his pen and his inkwell to the jail . 
we will spare for no wit ,  I warrant you . 	we won’t hold back any of our wisdom . 
here’s that shall drive some of them to a noncome . 	we’ll drive them to a
If you swear ,  my lord ,  you shall not be forsworn . 	I am being serious ,  my lord . 
I thank you . 	thank you . 
I am not of many words ,  but I thank you . 	I’m not a man who talks a lot ,  but I thank you . 
please it your Grace lead on ? 	If it pleases you ,  your highness ,  will you lead us all inside ? 
your hand ,  Leonato . 	give me your hand ,  Leonato . 
we will go together . 	we will go in together . 
benedick ,  didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato ? 	benedick ,  did you notice Signior Leonato’s daughter ? 
I noted her not ,  but I looked on her . 	I saw her ,  but I didn’t notice her . 
Is she not a modest young lady ? 	Isn’t she a well - mannered young lady ? 
do you question me as an honest man should do ,  for my simple true judgment ? 	do you want my true opinion ? 
or would you have me speak after my custom ,  as being a professed tyrant to their sex ? 	or do you want me to criticize her like I do all women ? 
no ,  I pray thee speak in sober judgment . 	no ,  please ,  speak seriously . 
why ,  i' faith ,  methinks she’s too low for a high praise ,  too brown for a fair praise ,  and too little for a great praise . 	well ,  it seems to me that she is too short to be praised highly ,  too dark to be praised fairly ,  and too small to be praised greatly . 
only this commendation I can afford her ,  that were she other than she is ,  she were unhandsome ,  and being no other but as she is ,  I do not like her . 	I can only say this about her: if she looked different than she does ,  she would be ugly ,  and since she can’t be anything but herself ,  I don’t like her . 
thou thinkest I am in sport . 	you think I’m kidding . 
I pray thee tell me truly how thou lik’st her . 	please tell me seriously what you think of her . 
come ,  Friar Francis ,  be brief ,  only to the plain form of marriage ,  and you shall recount their particular duties afterwards . 	all right ,  Friar Francis ,  let’s keep this short . 
no . 	no . 
lady ,  you come hither to be married to this count ? 	no ,  he comes to be married  Lady ,  do you come here to be married to this count ? 
I do . 	I do . 
If either of you know any inward impediment why you should not be conjoined ,  charge you on your souls to utter it . 	If either of you knows any secret reason why you two should not be joined in marriage ,  I order you on your souls to say so . 
know you any ,  Hero ? 	do you know any ,  Hero ? 
none ,  my lord . 	none ,  my lord . 
know you any ,  count ? 	do you know any ,  count ? 
I dare make his answer ,  none . 	I’m sure I can answer for him—he doesn’t know any ,  either . 
o ,  what men dare do ! 	oh ,  the things men dare to do ! 
what men may do ! 	the things men are allowed to do ! 
what men daily do ,  not knowing what they do ! 	the things men do daily ,  not knowing what they’re doing ! 
how now ,  interjections ? 	what ,  are we playing with interjections ? 
why ,  then ,  some be of laughing ,  as ,  ah ,  ha ,  he ! 	well then ,  add some interjections that indicate laughter ,  like  Hold on ,  Friar . 
as freely ,  son ,  as God did give her me . 	as freely ,  son ,  as God gave her to me . 
and what have I to give you back whose worth May counterpoise this rich and precious gift ? 	and what should I give you that would be equal in value to this rare and precious gift ? 
nothing ,  unless you render her again . 	nothing ,  sir ,  except grandchildren . 
sweet Prince ,  you learn me noble thankfulness . — There ,  Leonato ,  take her back again . 	there ,  Leonato ,  take your daughter back . 
she’s but the sign and semblance of her honor . 	she only appears honorable from the outside . 
behold how like a maid she blushes here ! 	look ,  how she blushes like a virgin ! 
oh ,  what authority and show of truth Can cunning sin cover itself withal ! 	oh ,  sin can disguise itself so artfully ! 
comes not that blood as modest evidence To witness simple virtue ? 	doesn’t that rising blush suggest that she is virtuous and innocent ? 
would you not swear ,  All you that see her ,  that she were a maid By these exterior shows ? 	all of you who are looking at her ,  wouldn’t you swear that she’s a virgin ,  judging by these outward shows ? 
but she is none . 	but she is no virgin . 
she knows the heat of a luxurious bed . 	she has been in a man’s bed . 
her blush is guiltiness ,  not modesty . 	she blushes from guilt ,  not modesty . 
what do you mean ,  my lord ? 	what do you mean ,  my lord ? 
dear my lord ,  if you in your own proof Have vanquished the resistance of her youth And made defeat of her virginity— I know what you would say: if I have known her ,  You will say she did embrace me as a husband ,  And so extenuate the forehand sin . 	my dear lord ,  if it was you who conquered her and took her virginity— I know what you’re about to say . 
and seemed I ever otherwise to you ? 	and have I ever seemed less than modest or appropriate to you ? 
out on thee ,  seeming ! 	curse you for your false appearances ! 
Is my lord well ,  that he doth speak so wide ? 	Is that why you’re talking so wildly ? 
sweet Prince ,  why speak not you ? 	good Prince ,  say something ! 
what should I speak ? 	what should I say ? 
I stand dishonored ,  that have gone about To link my dear friend to a common stale . 	I’ve been dishonored: I arranged for a friend of mine to marry a common whore . 
are these things spoken ,  or do I but dream ? 	are you really saying these things ,  or am I dreaming ? 
sir ,  they are spoken ,  and these things are true . 	they’re really being spoken ,  sir ,  and they’re true . 
this looks not like a nuptial . 	this doesn’t look like a wedding . 
true ! 	It’s true ! 
o God ! 	oh God ! 
leonato ,  stand I here ? 	leonato ,  am I standing here ? 
Is this the Prince ? 	Is this the Prince ? 
Is this the Prince’s brother ? 	Is this the Prince’s brother ? 
Is this face Hero’s ? 	Is this face Hero’s ? 
are our eyes our own ? 	are these our eyes ? 
all this is so ,  but what of this ,  my lord ? 	yes ,  that’s all true—but what do you mean by it ,  my lord ? 
let me but move one question to your daughter ,  And by that fatherly and kindly power That you have in her ,  bid her answer truly . 	let me just ask her one question ,  and by your authority as her father ,  order her to answer truthfully . 
I charge thee do so ,  as thou art my child . 	as my child ,  I order you to do so . 
oh ,  God defend me ! 	oh ,  God help me ! 
how am I beset ! — What kind of catechizing call you this ? 	what kind of game is this ? 
to make you answer truly to your name . 	we just want you to answer to your real name . 
Is it not Hero ? 	Isn’t my name Hero ? 
who can blot that name With any just reproach ? 	who can stain that name with a just accusation ? 
marry ,  that can Hero ! 	Indeed ,  Hero herself can ! 
hero itself can blot out Hero’s virtue . 	you’ve stained your virtue with your own actions . 
what man was he talked with you yesternight Out at your window betwixt twelve and one ? 	what man were you talking to at your window last night ,  between the hours of midnight and one ? 
now ,  if you are a maid ,  answer to this . 	If you’re a virgin ,  you’ll answer this question . 
I talked with no man at that hour ,  my lord . 	I wasn’t talking to any man at that time ,  my lord . 
upon mine honor ,  Myself ,  my brother ,  and this grievèd count Did see her ,  hear her ,  at that hour last night Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window Who hath indeed ,  most like a liberal villain ,  Confessed the vile encounters they have had A thousand times in secret . 	I swear on my honor that we saw and heard Hero talking to a brute at her window last night . 
there is not chastity enough in language ,  Without offense ,  to utter them . —Thus ,  pretty lady ,  I am sorry for thy much misgovernment . 	pretty lady ,  I’m much ashamed of your shocking behavior . 
why ,  how now ,  cousin ! 	what’s wrong ,  cousin ? 
wherefore sink you down ? 	why have you collapsed ? 
come ,  let us go . 	come ,  let’s go . 
these things ,  come thus to light ,  Smother her spirits up . 	these revelations have overwhelmed her . 
how doth the lady ? 	how is she ? 
dead ,  I think . —Help ,  uncle ! — Hero ,  why ,  Hero ! 	she’s dead ,  I think . —Help ,  uncle ! —Hero ,  why Hero ! 
uncle ! 	uncle ! 
signor Benedick ! 	signior Benedick ! 
friar ! 	friar ! 
death is the fairest cover for her shame That may be wished for . 	death is the best way to cover over her shame . 
how now ,  cousin Hero ! 	how are you ,  Hero ? 
yea ,  wherefore should she not ? 	yes ,  why shouldn’t she ? 
wherefore ! 	why not ! 
why ,  doth not every earthly thing Cry shame upon her ? 	Isn’t every living thing condemning her ? 
grieved I I had but one ? 	am I sorry that I only had one child ? 
chid I for that at frugal Nature’s frame ? 	do I blame Nature for being so thrifty ? 
o ,  one too much by thee ! 	oh ,  one child is one too many ! 
why had I one ? 	why did I ever have one ? 
why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes ? 	why did you once seem lovely to me ? 
why had I not with charitable hand Took up a beggar’s issue at my gates ,  Who ,  smirchèd thus ,  and mired with infamy ,  I might have said ,   “ No part of it is mine; This shame derives itself from unknown loins ”  ? 	why didn’t I just adopt a beggar’s child left at my doorstep ,  whose shame and dishonor I could have denied ,  not being its true father ? 
sir ,  sir ,  be patient . 	sir ,  sir ,  calm down . 
for my part ,  I am so attired in wonder I know not what to say . 	I’m so amazed by this ,  I don’t know what to say . 
oh ,  on my soul ,  my cousin is belied ! 	oh ,  on my soul ,  my cousin has been slandered falsely ! 
lady ,  were you her bedfellow last night ? 	lady ,  did you sleep in her room last night ? 
no ,  truly not ,  although until last night I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow . 	no ,  I didn’t ,  but I did every night for the past year . 
confirmed ,  confirmed ! 	then it’s confirmed ! 
I have marked A thousand blushing apparitions To start into her face ,  a thousand innocent shames In angel whiteness beat away those blushes ,  And in her eye there hath appeared a fire To burn the errors that these princes hold Against her maiden truth . 	and in her eyes I see a fire that would seem to burn away the lies the princes have told about her chastity . 
friar ,  it cannot be . 	but she must be ,  Friar . 
thou seest that all the grace that she hath left Is that she will not add to her damnation A sin of perjury . 	you see that any morals she has left are preventing her from denying the charges: she doesn’t want to add perjury to her list of sins . 
there is some strange misprision in the princes . 	the princes are under some strange misunderstanding . 
two of them have the very bent of honor ,  And if their wisdoms be misled in this ,  The practice of it lives in John the Bastard ,  Whose spirits toil in frame of villainies . 	two of them are completely honorable ,  and if they have been tricked in this ,  we must blame John the Bastard ,  who lives to create conflict . 
I know not . 	I don’t know . 
If they speak but truth of her ,  These hands shall tear her; if they wrong her honor ,  The proudest of them shall well hear of it . 	If they have spoken the truth about Hero ,  I will tear her apart with my bare hands . 
time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine Nor age so eat up my invention Nor fortune made such havoc of my means Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends But they shall find ,  awaked in such a kind ,  Both strength of limb and policy of mind ,  Ability in means and choice of friends ,  To quit me of them throughly . 	age hasn’t dried up my body or eroded my intelligence so much ,  and luck hasn’t robbed me of so much of my fortune ,  and my bad ways haven’t deprived me of so many friends ,  that they won’t find me ready to seek revenge both physically and mentally ,  with money and friends at my disposal . 
pause awhile ,  And let my counsel sway you in this case . 	hold on a moment ,  and listen to my advice . 
your daughter here the princes left for dead . 	the princes left your daughter here for dead . 
let her awhile be secretly kept in And publish it that she is dead indeed . 	hide her for a while in your house ,  and tell everyone that she has ,  in fact ,  died . 
maintain a mourning ostentation ,  And on your family’s old monument Hang mournful epitaphs and do all rites That appertain unto a burial . 	make a bug show of mourning for her ,  hang sad epitaphs up at your family’s tomb ,  and perform all the appropriate burial ceremonies . 
what shall become of this ? 	why should we do this ? 
what will this do ? 	what will this do ? 
that is some good . 	that will be a good thing . 
she ,  dying ,  as it must so be maintained ,  Upon the instant that she was accused ,  Shall be lamented ,  pitied and excused Of every hearer . 	we’ll maintain that she died the instant she was accused ,  and everyone who hears this will grieve for her ,  pity her ,  and excuse her actions . 
so will it fare with Claudio . 	that’s how Claudio will respond . 
but if all aim but this be leveled false ,  The supposition of the lady’s death Will quench the wonder of her infamy . 	and even if they don’t ,  at least Hero’s supposed death will stop the rumors of her infidelity . 
and if it sort not well ,  you may conceal her ,  As best befits her wounded reputation ,  In some reclusive and religious life ,  Out of all eyes ,  tongues ,  minds ,  and injuries . 	and if it doesn’t go well ,  then you can keep her hidden in a nunnery ,  the best place for someone with her kind of dirtied reputation—away from the public’s eyes ,  tongues ,  mind ,  and insults . 
signior Leonato ,  let the friar advise you . 	signior Leonato ,  listen to the friar’s plan . 
and though you know my inwardness and love Is very much unto the Prince and Claudio ,  Yet ,  by mine honor ,  I will deal in this As secretly and justly as your soul Should with your body . 	and even though you know I’m very close to the Prince and Claudio ,  I swear I’ll keep your counsel and deal with this secretly and justly . 
would you buy her ,  that you enquire after her ? 	are you thinking of buying her ? 
but speak you this with a sad brow ? 	but tell me ,  are you speaking seriously ? 
or do you play the flouting jack ,  to tell us Cupid is a good hare - finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter ? 	or are you just teasing ? 
come ,  in what key shall a man take you to go in the song ? 	If I’m going to sing along with you ,  I need to know what key you’re singing in . 
In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I looked on . 	I think she’s the most wonderful woman I’ve ever laid eyes on . 
I can see yet without spectacles ,  and I see no such matter . 	I’m still young enough to see without glasses ,  and I don’t see what you’re talking about . 
but I hope you have no intent to turn husband ,  have you ? 	but ,  hey ,  this doesn’t mean you’re looking to get married ,  does it ? 
I would scarce trust myself ,  though I had sworn the contrary ,  if Hero would be my wife . 	even if I had sworn never to marry ,  I wouldn’t trust myself to keep that promise if Hero would marry me . 
Is ’t come to this ? 	what’s going on these days ? 
In faith ,  hath not the world one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion ? 	Isn’t there one man left in the world who knows not to take a wife ? 
look ,  Don Pedro is returned to seek you . 	look ,  Don Pedro has come back for you . 
tis well consented . 	this is a good agreement . 
presently away ,  For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure . — Come ,  lady ,  die to live . 	come ,  lady; you must die in order to live . 
this wedding day Perhaps is but prolonged . 	hopefully ,  your wedding day is only postponed . 
have patience and endure . 	have patience and endure . 
lady Beatrice ,  have you wept all this while ? 	lady Beatrice ,  have you been crying this entire time ? 
yea ,  and I will weep a while longer . 	yes ,  and I’ll keep crying a while longer . 
I will not desire that . 	I don’t wish that on you . 
surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged . 	I really believe your cousin was falsely accused . 
ah ,  how much might the man deserve of me that would right her ! 	oh ,  the man who avenged her could ask anything of me ! 
Is there any way to show such friendship ? 	Is there any way I could show such friendship to you ? 
a very even way ,  but no such friend . 	a very clear way ,  but there is no friend who will undertake it . 
may a man do it ? 	can a man do it ? 
It is a man’s office ,  but not yours . 	It’s a job meant for a man ,  but not you . 
I do love nothing in the world so well as you . 	there is nothing in the world that I love as much as you . 
Is not that strange ? 	Isn’t that strange ? 
as strange as the thing I know not . 	It’s as strange as this other thing which I don’t understand . 
I am sorry for my cousin . 	I feel awful for my cousin . 
by my sword ,  Beatrice ,  thou lovest me . 	by my sword ,  Beatrice ,  you love me . 
with no sauce that can be devised to it . 	not with any sauce they could provide for them . 
I protest I love thee . 	I swear ,  I love you . 
why then ,  God forgive me . 	well then ,  God forgive me ! 
what offense ,  sweet Beatrice ? 	why ,  what have you done ,  sweet Beatrice ? 
you have stayed me in a happy hour . 	you got to me first . 
I was about to protest I loved you . 	I was about to swear that I loved you . 
and do it with all thy heart . 	then do so ,  with all your heart . 
I love you with so much of my heart that none is left to protest . 	I love you with so much of my heart that none of it is left to protest with . 
come ,  bid me do anything for thee . 	come ,  ask me to do anything for you . 
kill Claudio . 	kill Claudio . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
not for the wide world . 	I wouldn’t do that for the whole wide world . 
you kill me to deny it . 	then ,  rejecting my request ,  you kill
tarry ,  sweet Beatrice . 	wait ,  sweet Beatrice . 
I am gone ,  though I am here . 	my body waits here ,  but the rest of me is gone . 
there is no love in you . 	you don’t really love me . 
nay ,  I pray you let me go . 	I beg you to let me go . 
beatrice— In faith ,  I will go . 	beatrice— I swear ,  I’m going . 
we’ll be friends first . 	not until we part as friends . 
you dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy . 	how dare you try to be my friend when you refuse to fight my enemy . 
Is Claudio thine enemy ? 	Is Claudio your enemy ? 
Is he not approved in the height a villain ,  that hath slandered ,  scorned ,  dishonored my kinswoman ? 	hasn’t he proven himself to be a great villain—slandering ,  scorning ,  and dishonoring my cousin ? 
oh ,  that I were a man ! 	oh ,  I wish I were a man ! 
what ,  bear her in hand until they come to take hands and then ,  with public accusation ,  uncovered slander ,  unmitigated rancor—O God ,  that I were a man ! 	he pretended that everything was fine until the moment they were exchanging vows ,  and then—with public accusation ,  blatant slander ,  pure hatred—Oh God ,  if only I were a man ! 
I would eat his heart in the marketplace . 	I would rip his heart out in public and eat it . 
hear me ,  Beatrice— Talk with a man out at a window ! 	listen to me ,  Beatrice— Talking with a man outside her bedroom window ! 
a proper saying ! 	a likely story ! 
nay ,  but Beatrice— Sweet Hero ,  she is wronged ,  she is slandered ,  she is undone . 	no ,  but Beatrice— Sweet Hero ,  she’s been wronged ,  she’s been slandered ,  she’s been ruined . 
beat—	beat—
princes and counties ! 	princes and counts ! 
surely ,  a princely testimony ,  a goodly count ,  Count Comfect ,  a sweet gallant ,  surely ! 	he’s a proper count ,  that Count Sugarplum ,  a sweet gentleman ,  for sure ! 
oh ,  that I were a man for his sake ! 	oh ,  if only I were a man ! 
or that I had any friend would be a man for my sake ! 	or had a friend who would be a man for me ! 
but manhood is melted into curtsies ,  valor into compliment ,  and men are only turned into tongue ,  and trim ones too . 	all this conversing has turned men into tongues—and fancy ones ,  at that . 
he is now as valiant as Hercules that only tells a lie and swears it . 	the man who tells a lie and swears by it is now considered as brave as Hercules . 
I cannot be a man with wishing ,  therefore I will die a woman with grieving . 	I can’t make myself a man by wishing I were ,  so as a woman I’ll die ,  from grieving . 
tarry ,  good Beatrice . 	wait ,  good Beatrice . 
by this hand ,  I love thee . 	I swear by this hand that I love you . 
use it for my love some other way than swearing by it . 	don’t just swear by it; put your hand to some use that will prove you love me . 
enough ,  I am engaged . 	that’s enough for me ,  then . 
I will challenge him . 	I’ll challenge him . 
I will kiss your hand ,  and so I leave you . 	I’ll kiss your hand ,  and with that I leave you . 
by this hand ,  Claudio shall render me a dear account . 	I swear that Claudio will pay dearly for this . 
go comfort your cousin . 	keep me in your thoughts and go comfort your cousin . 
which be the malefactors ? 	which ones are the malefactors ? 
marry ,  that am I and my partner . 	sir ,  that would be me and my partner . 
let them come before Master Constable . 	have them come in front of the master constable . 
yea ,  marry ,  let them come before me . 	yes ,  indeed ,  bring them before me . 
what’s your name ,  friend ? 	what’s your name ,  friend ? 
borachio . 	borachio . 
pray ,  write down ,   “ Borachio .  ” —Yours ,  sirrah ? 	please ,  write down  “ Borachio .  ” —And yours ? 
I am a gentleman ,  sir ,  and my name is Conrade . 	I’m a gentleman ,  sir ,  and my name is Conrade . 
write down  “ Master Gentleman Conrade .  ” —Masters ,  do you serve God ? 	write down  “ Master Gentleman Conrade .  ” —Gentlemen ,  are you good Christians ,  and do you serve God ? 
yea ,  sir ,  we hope . 	yes ,  sir ,  we hope so . 
how answer you for yourselves ? 	how do you both plead ? 
marry ,  sir ,  we say we are none . 	honestly ,  sir ,  we say that we are not criminals . 
a marvelous witty fellow ,  I assure you ,  but I will go about with him . —Come you hither ,  sirrah ,  a word in your ear . 	he’s a marvelously witty fellow ,  no doubt ,  but I’ll outmaneuver him . —Come over here; I’ll whisper a word in your ear . 
sir ,  I say to you it is thought you are false knaves . 	sir ,  I tell you we believe you’re both lying criminals . 
sir ,  I say to you we are none . 	sir ,  I tell you that we are not . 
well ,  stand aside . —'Fore God ,  they are both in a ale . 	well ,  okay . —I swear to God ,  both their stories match . 
have you writ down that they are none ? 	have you written that down ,  that they aren’t criminals ? 
master Constable ,  you go not the way to examine . 	master Constable ,  you’re going about this all wrong . 
you must call forth the watch that are their accusers . 	first ,  you have to speak to the watchmen who accused them . 
yea ,  marry ,  that’s the eftest way . —Let the watch come forth . 	yes ,  good idea; that’s the
this man said ,  sir ,  that Don John ,  the Prince’s brother ,  was a villain . 	this man said ,  sir ,  that Don John ,  the Prince’s brother ,  was a villain . 
write down Prince John a villain . 	write down that Prince John is a villain . 
I do not like thy look ,  I promise thee . 	I swear ,  I don’t like the look of you . 
marry ,  that he had received a thousand ducats of Don John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully . 	that Don John had given him a thousand pieces of gold for wrongfully accusing the Lady Hero . 
flat burglary as ever was committed . 	that’s burglary ,  that is . 
yea ,  by Mass ,  that it is . 	yes ,  by God ,  that it is . 
what else ,  fellow ? 	what else did you hear ? 
what else ? 	what else ? 
this is all . 	that’s all . 
prince John is this morning secretly stolen away . 	I’ll get there first and tell him what we found out . 
god’s my life ,  where’s the Sexton ? 	honest to God ,  where’s the sexton ? 
let him write down the Prince’s officer  “ coxcomb .  ”  Come ,  bind them . —Thou naughty varlet ! 	come on ,  tie them up . 
away ! 	get away from me ,  you ass ! 
you are an ass ,  you are an ass ! 	you ass ! 
dost thou not suspect my place ? 	don’t you suspect my office ? 
dost thou not suspect my years ? 	don’t you
If you go on thus ,  you will kill yourself ,  And ’tis not wisdom thus to second grief Against yourself . 	If you keep on the way you’ve been going ,  you’ll kill yourself . 
I pray thee ,  cease thy counsel ,  Which falls into mine ears as profitless As water in a sieve . 	stop advising me; your words pass through my ears like water through a sieve . 
bring me a father that so loved his child ,  Whose joy of her is overwhelmed like mine ,  And bid him speak of patience . 	find a father who loved his child as overwhelmingly as I loved Hero and ask
therefore give me no counsel . 	so don’t advise me . 
I pray thee ,  peace . 	please ,  leave me alone . 
I will be flesh and blood ,  For there was never yet philosopher That could endure the toothache patiently ,  However they have writ the style of gods And made a push at chance and sufferance . 	I intend to be flesh and blood ,  not airy philosophy ,  for there has never yet been a philosopher who could endure a toothache patiently ,  even though they all write as if they had risen above human suffering and misfortune . 
yet bend not all the harm upon yourself . 	but don’t take all that pain on yourself . 
make those that do offend you suffer too . 	make sure the ones who have wronged you suffer too . 
there thou speak’st reason . 	now you’re talking . 
nay ,  I will do so . 	I definitely will . 
my soul doth tell me Hero is belied ,  And that shall Claudio know; so shall the Prince And all of them that thus dishonor her . 	In my soul ,  I believe Hero has been falsely accused . 
here comes the Prince and Claudio hastily . 	the Prince and Claudio are hurrying this way . 
good e'en ,  good e'en . 	good evening ,  good evening . 
good day to both of you . 	good day to both of you . 
hear you ,  my lords—     We have some haste ,  Leonato . 	listen ,  my lords— We’re in a bit of a hurry ,  Leonato . 
I would your grace would constrain me to tell . 	your highness will have to force me to tell . 
amen ,  if you love her ,  for the lady is very well worthy . 	It’s good if you love Hero ,  because she’s worthy of your love . 
you speak this to fetch me in ,  my lord . 	you’re trying to trick me ,  my lord . 
by my troth ,  I speak my thought . 	I swear ,  I’m telling you what I honestly think . 
some haste ,  my lord ! 	a bit of a hurry ,  my lord ! 
well ,  fare you well ,  my lord . 	well then ,  good bye ,  my lord . 
are you so hasty now ? 	you’re in a hurry ,  are you ? 
well ,  all is one . 	well then ,  don’t bother . 
nay ,  do not quarrel with us ,  good old man . 	come on ,  don’t quarrel with us ,  good old man . 
If he could right himself with quarreling ,  Some of us would lie low . 	If it’s fighting he is after ,  some of us here should run and hide . 
who wrongs him ? 	who has wronged him ? 
marry ,  thou dost wrong me ,  thou dissembler ,  thou . 	Indeed ,  you have wronged me ,  you liar . 
nay ,  never lay thy hand upon thy sword . 	don’t bother trying to intimidate me by putting your hand on your sword . 
I fear thee not . 	I’m not scared of you . 
marry ,  beshrew my hand If it should give your age such cause of fear . 	curse my hand if it ever threatened an old man like you . 
In faith ,  my hand meant nothing to my sword . 	really ,  I had no intention of going for my sword . 
tush ,  tush ,  man ,  never fleer and jest at me . 	damn you ,  don’t mock and sneer at me . 
I speak not like a dotard nor a fool ,  As under privilege of age to brag What I have done being young ,  or what would do Were I not old . 	I’m not a doddering old fool who brags about the things he did when he was young ,  and what he would do now if he weren’t so old . 
know ,  Claudio ,  to thy head ,  Thou hast so wronged mine innocent child and me That I am forced to lay my reverence by ,  And with gray hairs and bruise of many days Do challenge thee to trial of a man . 	claudio ,  I’m telling you right to your face that you have wronged me and my innocent child . 
I say thou hast belied mine innocent child . 	you have ruined my innocent child . 
thy slander hath gone through and through her heart ,  And she lies buried with her ancestors ,  Oh ,  in a tomb where never scandal slept Save this of hers ,  framed by thy villainy . 	your slander has broken her heart ,  and now she lies buried with her ancestors in a tomb—ancestors who had never been tainted by scandal until you caused one with your wickedness . 
my villainy ? 	my wickedness ? 
thine ,  Claudio ,  thine ,  I say . 	yours ,  Claudio ,  yours ,  I say . 
you say not right ,  old man . 	you’ve got it wrong ,  old man . 
my lord ,  my lord ,  I’ll prove it on his body if he dare ,  Despite his nice fence and his active practice ,  His May of youth and bloom of lustihood . 	I’ll beat him despite his fancy fencing techniques and all the practicing he does ,  despite his youth and manliness . 
away ! 	not a chance ! 
I will not have to do with you . 	I’ll have nothing to do with you . 
canst thou so daff me ? 	you think you can get rid of me that easily ? 
thou hast killed my child . 	you killed my child . 
If thou kill’st me ,  boy ,  thou shalt kill a man . 	take on someone your own size: if you kill me ,  boy ,  you’ll have killed a man . 
he shall kill two of us ,  and men indeed ,  But that’s no matter . 	he’ll have to kill both of us ,  and indeed we’re both men . 
let him kill one first . 	but let him start off easy by killing one of us . 
win me and wear me ! 	come on—kill me and brag about it ! 
let him answer me . — Come ,  follow me ,  boy . 	let me at him . 
sir boy ,  I’ll whip you from your foining fence ,  Nay ,  as I am a gentleman ,  I will . 	I will ,  as surely as I am a gentleman . 
brother— Content yourself . 	brother— Quiet . 
god knows I loved my niece ,  And she is dead ,  slandered to death by villains That dare as well answer a man indeed As I dare take a serpent by the tongue . — Boys ,  apes ,  braggarts ,  jacks ,  milksops ! 	god knows I loved my niece ,  and now she’s dead—slandered to death by cowards who would just as likely fight a real man as I would grab a poisonous snake by the tongue . 
brother Anthony—	brother Anthony—
hold you content . 	hold your peace . 
but brother Anthony—     Come ,  ’tis no matter . 	but brother Anthony— Don’t ,  it’s no big deal . 
do not you meddle . 	don’t bother with it . 
let me deal in this . 	let me deal with this . 
gentlemen both ,  we will not wake your patience . 	gentlemen ,  we won’t stay here and anger you further . 
my heart is sorry for your daughter’s death ,  But ,  on my honor ,  she was charged with nothing But what was true and very full of proof . 	I’m sorry about your daughter’s death ,  but I swear our accusations were true ,  and backed up with proof . 
my lord ,  my lord— I will not hear you . 	my lord ,  my lord— I don’t want to hear any more about it . 
no ? 	no ? 
come ,  brother; away ! 	come on ,  brother ! 
I will be heard . 	I’m determined to be heard by someone . 
and shall ,  or some of us will smart for it . 	and you will be ,  or some people here will suffer for it . 
see ,  see ,  here comes the man we went to seek . 	look ,  here comes just the man we were looking for . 
now ,  Signior ,  what news ? 	what’s up ,  mister ? 
welcome ,  Signior . 	welcome ,  sir . 
you are almost come to part almost a fray . 	you just missed a fight that was barely avoided . 
we had like to have had our two noses snapped off with two old men without teeth . 	we were about to have our noses snapped off by two old men with no teeth . 
leonato and his brother . 	leonato and his brother . 
what think’st thou ? 	what do you think ? 
had we fought ,  I doubt we should have been too young for them . 	I think if we had fought ,  we would have proven too young and strong for them after all . 
In a false quarrel there is no true valor . 	there’s no bravery in an unfair fight . 
as I am an honest man ,  he looks pale . —Art thou sick ,  or angry ? 	look: Benedick is so pale—are you sick ,  or angry ? 
killed a cat ? 	lighten up . 
thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care . 	sir ,  don’t even try to beat me in a battle of wits . 
sir ,  I shall meet your wit in the career ,  an you charge it against me . 	I’ll meet all your attacks ,  even if you come charging at me with a lance at full gallop . 
I pray you ,  choose another subject . 	choose another tack . 
I think he be angry indeed . 	I think he really is angry . 
If he be ,  he knows how to turn his girdle . 	If he is ,  that’s his problem . 
shall I speak a word in your ear ? 	can I have a word with you privately ? 
god bless me from a challenge ! 	god forbid he wants to challenge me ! 
do me right ,  or I will protest your cowardice . 	lain . 
you have killed a sweet lady ,  and her death shall fall heavy on you . 	you’ve killed an innocent woman ,  and you’re going to pay dearly for her death . 
let me hear from you . 	what do you say ? 
what ,  a feast ,  a feast ? 	what ,  are we having a feast ? 
I' faith ,  I thank him . 	yes ,  we are . 
I’ll tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit he other day . 	benedick ,  Beatrice praised your wit the other day . 
I said thou hadst a fine wit . 	I said you had a fine wit . 
true ,  ”  said she ,   “ a fine little one .  ”   “ No ,  ”  said I ,   “ a great wit .  ”   “ Right ,  ”  says she ,   “ a great gross one .  ”   “ Nay ,  ”  said I ,   “ a good wit .  ”   “ Just ,  ”  said she ,   “ it hurts nobody .  ”   “ Nay ,  ”  said I ,   “ the gentleman is wise .  ”   “ Certain ,  ”  said she ,   “ a wise gentleman .  ”   “ Nay ,  ”  said I ,   “ he hath the tongues .  ”   “ That I believe ,  ”  said she ,   “ for he swore a thing to me on Monday night ,  which he forswore on Tuesday morning; there’s a double tongue ,  there’s two tongues .  ”  Thus did she an hour together transshape thy particular virtues . 	true ,  ”  she said ,   “ a fine little one .  ”   “ No ,  ”  I said ,   “ a huge wit .  ”   “ Right ,  ”  she said ,   “ a hugely awful one .  ”   “ No ,  ”  I said ,   “ he has a good wit .  ”   “ Exactly ,  ”  she said ,   “ it’s good and mild; it doesn’t hurt anyone .  ”   “ No ,  ”  I said ,   “ Benedick is wise .  ”   “ He is certainly ,  ”  she said ,   She cried a lot at that ,  and said she didn’t care . 
yea ,  that she did . 	that she did . 
but yet for all that ,  an if she did not hate him deadly ,  she would love him dearly . 	and yet for all that ,  if she didn’t hate him to death ,  she’d love him to death . 
the old man’s daughter told us all . 	leonato’s daughter had told us everything . 
all ,  all . 	absolutely everything . 
and ,  moreover ,  God saw him when he was hid in the garden . 	and ,  moreover ,  God saw Benedick when he was hid in the garden . 
but when shall we set the savage bull’s horns on the sensible Benedick’s head ? 	but when exactly will we see Benedick married ? 
yea ,  and text underneath:  “ Here dwells Benedick the married man ”  ? 	yes ,  with the sign underneath him that says:  “ Here lives Benedick the married man ”  ? 
fare you well ,  boy . 	goodbye ,  boy . 
you know my mind . 	you know what I intend . 
I will leave you now to your gossip - like humor . 	I’ll leave you now to chatter and gossip like an old woman . 
you break jests as braggarts do their blades ,  which ,  God be thanked ,  hurt not . —My lord ,  for your many courtesies I thank you . 	the wit you flaunt is like a blunt sword—it can’t hurt anyone ,  thank God . —My lord ,  I thank you for your many kindnesses . 
I must discontinue your company . 	I’m leaving your court now . 
your brother the Bastard is fled from Messina . 	your brother Don John the Bastard has run away from Messina . 
you have among you killed a sweet and innocent lady . 	the three of you have killed a sweet ,  innocent woman . 
for my Lord Lackbeard there ,  he and I shall meet ,  and till then peace be with him . 	lord Babyface over there will meet me in a duel ,  and good luck to him then . 
he is in earnest . 	he’s serious . 
In most profound earnest ,  and ,  I’ll warrant you ,  for the love of Beatrice . 	very serious ,  and I’m sure it’s because of Beatrice . 
and hath challenged thee ? 	and he challenged you to a duel ? 
most sincerely . 	he did ,  very sincerely . 
what a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and hose and leaves off his wit ! 	what a strange sight—a man who has put on all his fancy clothes but forgotten his brain at home ! 
he is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a doctor to such a man . 	a guy like that is bigger than an ape ,  but the ape could be his doctor ,  it’s so much smarter . 
but soft you ,  let me be . 	but wait a minute . 
pluck up ,  my heart ,  and be sad . 	let me gather my wits and get serious here . 
did he not say my brother was fled ? 	didn’t he say my brother has run away ? 
come you ,  sir . 	come on ,  you . 
If justice cannot tame you ,  she shall ne'er weigh more reasons in her balance . 	If they let you off ,  then we’ll have to assume that Lady Justice has lost all her power . 
nay ,  an you be a cursing hypocrite once ,  you must be looked to . 	since you are a lying hypocrite ,  we must look after you . 
how now ? 	what’s this ? 
two of my brother’s men bound ! 	two of my brother’s men ,  all tied up ! 
officers ,  what offense have these men done ? 	officers ,  what crime have these men committed ? 
marry ,  sir ,  they have committed false report; moreover ,  they have spoken untruths; secondarily ,  they are slanders; sixth and lastly ,  they have belied a lady; thirdly ,  they have verified unjust things; and ,  to conclude ,  they are lying knaves . 	well sir ,  they’ve lied; moreover ,  they have said things that were not true; secondarily ,  they are slanderers; sixth and lastly ,  they have falsely accused a lady; thirdly ,  they have confirmed things that did not in fact happen; and ,  in conclusion ,  they are lying scoundrels . 
first ,  I ask thee what they have done; thirdly ,  I ask thee what’s their offense; sixth and lastly ,  why they are committed; and ,  to conclude ,  what you lay to their charge . 	first ,  I ask you what they’ve done; thirdly ,  I ask you what offense they’re charged with; sixth and lastly ,  I ask you why they’ve been committed here; and ,  in conclusion ,  I ask what they’re accused of . 
I have deceived even your very eyes . 	I tricked your own eyes . 
my villainy they have upon record ,  which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my shame . 	they’ve recorded my crimes ,  and I would rather die than have to retell this shameful story . 
the lady is dead upon mine and my master’s false accusation . 	the lady has died because of the false accusations of me and my master . 
I have drunk poison whiles he uttered it . 	his words are like poison to me . 
yea ,  and paid me richly for the practice of it . 	yes ,  and paid me well for doing it . 
he is composed and framed of treachery ,  And fled he is upon this villainy . 	he is made of treachery ,  and has run away to avoid his crimes . 
sweet Hero ,  now thy image doth appear In the rare semblance that I loved it first . 	sweet Hero; when I imagine you now ,  you seem as beautiful as you did when I first loved you . 
here ,  here comes Master Signior Leonato ,  and the Sexton too . 	come ,  take away the  Here comes Master Signior Leonato with the sexton . 
which is the villain ? 	which one of them did it ? 
let me see his eyes ,  That ,  when I note another man like him ,  I may avoid him . 	let me see what he looks like ,  so when I see another man who resembles him ,  I’ll know to avoid him . 
which of these is he ? 	which one is it ? 
If you would know your wronger ,  look on me . 	If you want to see your deceiver ,  then look at me . 
art thou the slave that with thy breath hast killed Mine innocent child ? 	are you the slave who ,  with your slanderous words ,  killed my innocent child ? 
yea ,  even I alone . 	yes ,  I am the one . 
no ,  not so ,  villain ,  thou beliest thyself . 	no ,  villain ,  but you didn’t work alone . 
I know not how to pray your patience ,  Yet I must speak . 	I don’t know how to ask you for forgiveness ,  but I have to say something . 
choose your revenge yourself . 	choose your revenge . 
I cannot bid you bid my daughter live— That were impossible—but ,  I pray you both ,  Possess the people in Messina here How innocent she died . 	I can’t ask you to make my daughter live—that’s impossible—but I beg you both to tell the people of Messina that she was innocent when she died . 
and if your love Can labor ought in sad invention ,  Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb And sing it to her bones . 	and if your love can produce something from its sadness ,  write a poem for her; hang it on her grave and sing it to her bones . 
sing it tonight . 	sing it tonight . 
tomorrow morning come you to my house ,  And since you could not be my son - in - law ,  Be yet my nephew . 	then come to my house tomorrow morning ,  and since you couldn’t be my son - in - law ,  be my nephew instead . 
my brother hath a daughter ,  Almost the copy of my child that’s dead ,  And she alone is heir to both of us . 	my brother has a daughter who looks exactly like Hero; this girl is heir to both our estates . 
give her the right you should have given her cousin ,  And so dies my revenge . 	marry her as you should have married her cousin ,  and I will let my revenge die . 
that I love her ,  I feel . 	and  I feel that I love her . 
that she is worthy ,  I know . 	I know that she is worthy of that love . 
and never could maintain his part but in the force of his will . 	or in the power of reason . 
that a woman conceived me ,  I thank her . 	I was conceived by a woman ,  and I thank her very much for all her effort . 
that she brought me up ,  I likewise give her most humble thanks . 	and then she brought me up ,  and I thank her for that ,  too . 
I shall see thee ,  ere I die ,  look pale with love . 	I swear ,  before I die I’m going to see you sick with love . 
with anger ,  with sickness ,  or with hunger ,  my lord ,  not with love . 	with anger ,  with fever ,  or with hunger ,  sure ,  my friend ,  but never sick with love . 
prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I will get again with drinking ,  pick out mine eyes with a ballad - maker’s pen and hang me up at the door of a brothel house for the sign of blind Cupid . 	If you can prove that I’ll ever be so in love that I can’t be brought to my senses with a good round of beers ,  you can pluck out my eyes with a love - poet’s pen and hang me on a brothel’s door where the picture of blind Cupid usually goes . 
o noble sir ! 	oh ,  noble sir ! 
your overkindness doth wring tears from me . 	your overwhelming kindness makes me weep . 
I do embrace your offer; and dispose For henceforth of poor Claudio . 	I willingly accept your offer and put my future in your hands . 
tomorrow then I will expect your coming . 	I will see you tomorrow ,  then . 
tonight I take my leave . 	now I have to leave . 
this naughty man Shall face to face be brought to Margaret ,  Who I believe was packed in all this wrong ,  Hired to it by your brother . 	this wicked man will be brought face to face with Margaret ,  who I believe was hired by Don John to take part in this plot . 
I thank thee for thy care and honest pains . 	thank you for all your efforts . 
your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth ,  and I praise God for you . 	you speak like a very thankful and respectful boy ,  and may God bless you . 
god save the foundation ! 	god save the charitable organization ! 
I leave an arrant knave with your Worship ,  which I beseech your Worship to correct yourself ,  for the example of others . 	I leave a slimy bastard with you ,  your Worship ,  for you to punish and make an example of . 
god keep your Worship ! 	god bless your Worship ! 
I wish your Worship well . 	I wish you well . 
god restore you to health ! 	I hope that God restores you to health . 
farewell ,  my lords . 	goodbye ,  gentlemen . 
we look for you tomorrow . 	we’ll see you tomorrow . 
we will not fail . 	we’ll be there . 
tonight I’ll mourn with Hero . 	I will mourn Hero tonight . 
pray thee ,  sweet Mistress Margaret ,  deserve well at my hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice . 	please Margaret ,  help me write this poem for Beatrice . 
to have no man come over me ! 	you certainly deserve it . 
a most manly wit ,  Margaret ,  it will not hurt a woman . 	It’s just that my wit is very gentlemanly ,  Margaret ,  and refuses to hurt a woman . 
and so ,  I pray thee ,  call Beatrice . 	now please ,  tell Beatrice to come out . 
well ,  I will call Beatrice to you ,  who I think hath legs . 	I’ll go get Beatrice for you ,  who can walk here by herself—she has legs . 
and therefore will come . 	so that means she’ll come . 
I mean in singing . 	I’m really a pitiful singer . 
sweet Beatrice ,  wouldst thou come when I called thee ? 	take  Beatrice ,  have you come because I called for you ? 
yea ,  Signior ,  and depart when you bid me . 	yes ,  sir ,  and I’ll leave when you ask me to . 
oh  ,  stay but till then ! 	oh ,  well ,  stay till then ! 
only foul words ,  and thereupon I will kiss thee . 	I spoke angry ,  foul words to him ,  and with that I will kiss you . 
foul words is but foul wind ,  and foul wind is but foul breath ,  and foul breath is noisome . 	If you had foul words in your mouth ,  then your breath must be foul ,  and foul breath is nauseating . 
therefore I will depart unkissed . 	thus ,  I’ll leave without being kissed . 
thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense ,  so forcible is thy wit . 	your wit is so forceful ,  it frightens the very meaning out of your words . 
but I must tell thee plainly ,  Claudio undergoes my challenge ,  and either I must shortly hear from him ,  or I will subscribe him a coward . 	but I will tell you this very plainly: I have challenged Claudio ,  and either he’ll accept the challenge or admit he’s a coward . 
and I pray thee now tell me ,  for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me ? 	now ,  tell me—which of my bad qualities did you fall in love with first ? 
for them all together ,  which maintained so politic a state of evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with them . 	with all of them at once: they work together to create such an entirely evil person that no good ever manages to enter the mix . 
but for which of my good parts did you first suffer love for me ? 	but tell me—which of my good qualities first made you suffer love for me ? 
suffer love ! 	suffer love ! 
a good epithet ! 	that’s a good way of putting it . 
I do suffer love indeed ,  for I love thee against my will . 	I do suffer love ,  because I love you against my will . 
In spite of your heart ,  I think . 	you love me in spite of your heart ,  I think . 
If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb ere he dies ,  he shall live no longer in monument than the bell rings and the widow weeps . 	In this day and age ,  if a man doesn’t erect his own monument before he dies ,  he won’t be remembered past the funeral bell’s ringing and his widow’s crying . 
and how long is that ,  think you ? 	exactly how long is that ,  do you think ? 
question: why ,  an hour in clamor and a quarter in rheum . 	about an hour for the ringing and fifteen minutes for the crying . 
therefore is it most expedient for the wise ,  if Don Worm ,  his conscience ,  find no impediment to the contrary ,  to be the trumpet of his own virtues ,  as I am to myself . 	that’s why it’s better for wise men to trumpet their own virtues ,  like I do . 
so much for praising myself ,  who ,  I myself will bear witness ,  is praiseworthy . 	that’s why I praise myself ,  who—if I do say so myself—is quite praiseworthy . 
an now tell me ,  how doth your cousin ? 	but tell me ,  how is your cousin ? 
very ill ,  too . 	I’m very sick ,  too . 
serve God ,  love me ,  and mend . 	have faith ,  love me ,  and you will get better . 
madam ,  you must come to your uncle . 	madam ,  you have to go to your uncle’s . 
It is proved my Lady Hero hath been falsely accused ,  the Prince and Claudio mightily abused ,  and Don John is the author of all ,  who is fled and gone . 	It’s been proven that Lady Hero is innocent ,  that the Prince and Claudio have been utterly deceived ,  and that Don John—who has run away—is the source of all the trouble . 
will you come presently ? 	will you come immediately ? 
will you go hear this news ,  Signior ? 	will you come with me to hear this news ,  sir ? 
I will live in thy heart ,  die in thy lap ,  and be buried in thy eyes—and moreover ,  I will go with thee to thy uncle’s . 	I will live in your heart ,  die in your lap ,  and be buried in your eyes—and ,  what’s more ,  I will go with you to your uncle’s . 
Is this the monument of Leonato ? 	Is this the family tomb of Leonato ? 
It is ,  my lord . 	It is ,  my lord . 
done to death by slanderous tongues Was the Hero that here lies . 	here lies Hero ,  The heroic maiden killed by slanderous words . 
death ,  in guerdon of her wrongs ,  Gives her fame which never dies . 	to repay her for her troubles ,  Death Gives her undying fame . 
so the life that died with shame Lives in death with glorious fame . 	so the life that died with shame Lives on with fame . 
hang thou there upon the tomb ,  Praising her when I am dumb . 	this epitaph will hang here forever ,  Continuing to praise Hero after I die . 
now ,  music ,  sound ,  and sing your solemn hymn . 	now start the music ,  and sing the solemn hymn . 
now ,  unto thy bones good night ! 	now I say good night to your bones ,  Hero . 
yearly will I do this rite . 	I will perform this ceremony every year . 
good morrow ,  masters . 	good morning ,  gentlemen . 
put your torches out . 	put out your torches . 
the wolves have preyed ,  and look ,  the gentle day ,  Before the wheels of Phoebus ,  round about Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey . 	the wolves have finished preying for the night ,  and look—the gentle dawn is rising ,  dappling the sleepy eastern sky with spots of light . 
good morrow ,  masters . 	good morning ,  gentlemen . 
did I not tell you she was innocent ? 	didn’t I tell you she was innocent ? 
so are the Prince and Claudio ,  who accused her Upon the error that you heard debated . 	and the Prince and Claudio ,  who accused her ,  are innocent as well ,  because they were deceived by Don John . 
well ,  I am glad that all things sort so well . 	well ,  I’m glad that everything has been sorted out . 
and so am I ,  being else by faith enforced To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it . 	me too—otherwise I would have had to duel with Claudio . 
well ,  daughter ,  and you gentlewomen all ,  Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves ,  And when I send for you ,  come hither masked . 	when I send for you ,  come out wearing masks . 
the Prince and Claudio promised by this hour To visit me . —You know your office ,  brother . 	the Prince and Claudio are supposed to be here by now . —You know your job ,  brother . 
you must be father to your brother’s daughter ,  And give her to young Claudio . 	you have to pretend to be your niece’s father ,  and give her away to Claudio . 
to do what ,  Signior ? 	what do you need me to do ? 
that eye my daughter lent her; ’tis most true . 	she sees you with the eyes my daughter lent her ,  it’s true . 
and I do with an eye of love requite her . 	and I see her also through the eyes of love . 
the sight whereof I think you had from me ,  From Claudio and the Prince . 	and those eyes were endowed with sight by Claudio ,  the Prince ,  and me . 
but what’s your will ? 	but what did you want ? 
your answer ,  sir ,  is enigmatical . 	sir ,  I’m puzzled by what you just said . 
and my help . 	and I’ll help you . 
here comes the Prince and Claudio . 	here comes the Prince and Claudio . 
good morrow to this fair assembly . 	good morning to all these lovely people . 
good morrow ,  Prince; good morrow ,  Claudio . 	good morning ,  Prince; good morning ,  Claudio . 
we here attend you . 	we’re waiting here for you . 
are you yet determined Today to marry with my brother’s daughter ? 	are you still set on marrying my brother’s daughter ? 
I’ll hold my mind were she an Ethiope . 	I wouldn’t change my mind even if she were
well ,  as time shall try . 	well ,  time will tell . 
well ,  you temporize with the hours . 	just you wait . 
commend me to him and tell him I will not fail him at supper ,  for indeed he hath made great preparation . 	give him my respects ,  and tell him I’ll definitely be there for dinner ,  since I know he has gone to great lengths for this meal . 
call her forth ,  brother . 	bring her out ,  brother . 
here’s the friar ready . 	the friar’s ready . 
good morrow ,  Benedick . 	good morning ,  Benedick . 
I think he thinks upon the savage bull . 	I think he’s nervous—he’s about to become the savage bull who got domesticated . 
tush ,  fear not ,  man . 	oh ,  don’t worry about it—we’ll dip your    I’ll get you for that one . 
here comes other reck'nings . 	but here are other matters to be dealt with . 
which is the lady I must seize upon ? 	which is the lady I’m supposed to marry ? 
this same is she ,  and I do give you her . 	this one ,  and I will give her to you . 
no ,  that you shall not till you take her hand Before this friar and swear to marry her . 	no ,  you can’t do that until you take her hand and ,  in front of this friar ,  swear to marry her . 
another Hero ! 	It’s another Hero ! 
nothing certainer . 	exactly right . 
one Hero died defiled ,  but I do live ,  And surely as I live ,  I am a maid . 	and as surely as I am alive ,  I am a virgin . 
the former Hero ! 	It’s the former Hero ! 
hero that is dead ! 	the Hero that died ! 
she died ,  my lord ,  but whiles her slander lived . 	she was only dead ,  my lord ,  as long as her slander lived . 
all this amazement can I qualify When after that the holy rites are ended I’ll tell you largely of fair Hero’s death . 	I can confirm that all these shocking things are true . 
soft and fair ,  Friar . —Which is Beatrice ? 	which one of you is Beatrice ? 
do not you love me ? 	do you love me ? 
why no ,  no more than reason . 	no ,  no more than is reasonable . 
why then ,  your uncle and the Prince and Claudio Have been deceived . 	well then ,  your uncle and the Prince and Claudio have been deceived . 
they swore you did . 	they swore you did . 
do not you love me ? 	do you love me ? 
troth ,  no ,  no more than reason . 	truly ,  no—no more than is reasonable . 
why then ,  my cousin ,  Margaret ,  and Ursula Are much deceived ,  for they did swear you did . 	well then ,  Margaret ,  Ursula ,  and my cousin have been very much deceived ,  for they swore you did . 
they swore that you were almost sick for me . 	they swore that you were sick with love for me . 
they swore that you were well - nigh dead for me . 	they swore that you were nearly dead with love for me . 
tis no such matter . 	oh ,  well . 
then you do not love me ? 	so you don’t love me ? 
no ,  truly ,  but in friendly recompense . 	no ,  I don’t—except as a friend . 
come ,  cousin ,  I am sure you love the gentleman . 	come on ,  niece ,  I’m sure you love him . 
and here’s another ,  Writ in my cousin’s hand ,  stol'n from her pocket ,  Containing her affection unto Benedick . 	and here’s another poem ,  which I stole from my cousin’s pocket—in her handwriting and all about her adoration for Benedick . 
a miracle ! 	what a miracle ! 
here’s our own hands against our hearts . 	our handwriting gives away our hearts . 
come ,  I will have thee ,  but ,  by this light ,  I take thee for pity . 	come on ,  I’ll take you ,  but honestly I’m only doing it out of pity . 
I would not deny you ,  but ,  by this good day ,  I yield upon great persuasion ,  and partly to save your life ,  for I was told you were in a consumption . 	I won’t say no to you ,  but let it be known that I’m only doing this after a lot of persuasion and to save your life —I hear you were quickly wasting away without me . 
peace ! 	oh ,  shut up ! 
I will stop your mouth . 	I’ll stop your mouth with a kiss . 
how dost thou ,  Benedick ,  the married man ? 	how does it feel to be Benedick the Married Man ? 
I’ll tell thee what ,  Prince: a college of wit - crackers cannot flout me out of my humor . 	I’ll tell you what ,  Prince: a whole university full of wisecrackers couldn’t change my mood today . 
dost thou think I care for a satire or an epigram ? 	you think I care what I’m called ? 
no . 	well ,  I don’t . 
first ,  of my word ! 	no ,  before ! 
therefore play ,  music . —Prince ,  thou art sad . 	musicians ,  play us a song . —Prince ,  you look sad . 
get thee a wife ,  get thee a wife . 	you should get a wife ! 
to the tuition of God . 	Into God’s hands . 
from my house ,  if I had it— The sixth of July . 	from my house ,  if I had a house— ”   “ The sixth of July . 
my liege ,  your highness now may do me good . 	before you make  My lord ,  you could really help me out now . 
my love is thine to teach . 	I am at your service . 
teach it but how ,  And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn Any hard lesson that may do thee good . 	just tell me what you want me to do ,  and however hard it is ,  you’ll see that I’m eager to do it . 
hath Leonato any son ,  my lord ? 	does Leonato have a son ,  my lord ? 
no child but Hero; she’s his only heir . 	hero is his only child ,  and his only heir . 
dost thou affect her ,  Claudio ? 	do you like her ,  Claudio ? 
If thou dost love fair Hero ,  cherish it ,  And I will break with her and with her father ,  And thou shalt have her . 	look ,  if you really love the beautiful Hero ,  enjoy it . 
was ’t not to this end That thou began’st to twist so fine a story ? 	Isn’t that the reason you told me all this ? 
but lest my liking might too sudden seem ,  I would have salved it with a longer treatise . 	but I didn’t want you to think that I’m hasty in my emotions . 
what need the bridge much broader than the flood ? 	that’s like building a bridge wider than the river it crosses . 
I will assume thy part in some disguise And tell fair Hero I am Claudio ,  And in her bosom I’ll unclasp my heart And take her hearing prisoner with the force And strong encounter of my amorous tale . 	I’ll disguise myself as you and pour out  “ my ”  feelings to Hero ,  taking her prisoner with the force of my love story . 
In practice let us put it presently . 	let’s get started right away . 
hath he provided this music ? 	has he taken care of the music ? 
he is very busy about it . 	he is taking care of it as we speak . 
but ,  brother ,  I can tell you strange news that you yet dreamt not of . 	but brother ,  I have some strange news for you . 
are they good ? 	Is it good news ? 
hath the fellow any wit that told you this ? 	Is this servant of yours a smart man ? 
a good sharp fellow . 	he’s very bright . 
I will send for him ,  and question him yourself . 	I’ll get him to come here ,  and you can ask him yourself . 
he is very near by this . 	he must be very near by now . 
he was not three leagues off when I left him . 	when I left him ,  he was less than nine miles from here . 
how many gentlemen have you lost in this action ? 	how many noblemen were killed in the battle you just fought ? 
but few of any sort ,  and none of name . 	not many ,  and no one important . 
a victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full numbers . 	a victory in battle is twice as victorious when all the soldiers return home safely . 
I find here that Don Pedro hath bestowed much honor on a young Florentine called Claudio . 	claudio deserves to be honored ,  and Don Pedro has rewarded him accordingly . 
he hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it . 	he has an uncle here in Messina who will be glad to hear this news . 
no ,  no ,  we will hold it as a dream till it appear itself . 	no ,  no ,  until it comes true we’ll pretend it was just a dream we had . 
but I will acquaint my daughter withal ,  that she may be the better prepared for an answer if peradventure this be true . 	but my daughter should know about this ,  so she can be prepared with an answer just in case . 
go you and tell her of it . 	go to her and tell her for me . 
cousins ,  you know what you have to do . —O ,  I cry you mercy ,  friend . 	cousins ,  you all have work to do . —Oh ,  I beg your pardon . 
go you with me and I will use your skill . — Good cousin ,  have a care this busy time . 	come with me now ,  and help me out . 
what the goodyear ,  my lord ,  why are you thus out of measure sad ? 	really ,  my lord ,  why are you so excessively sad ? 
therefore the sadness is without limit . 	therefore my sadness is without limit . 
you should hear reason . 	you should listen to reason . 
I cannot hide what I am . 	I can’t hide what I am . 
yea ,  but you must not make the full show of this till you may do it without controlment . 	sure ,  but don’t do it at full volume until there’s no danger in it . 
you have of late stood out against your brother ,  and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace ,  where it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair weather that you make yourself . 	not long ago you challenged and opposed your brother ,  and it is only very recently that he has forgiven you . 
It is needful that you frame the season for your own harvest . 	you have to wait for the appropriate time to let loose . 
I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace ,  and it better fits my blood to be disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any . 	I’d rather be a weed in a hedge than a rose in my brother’s garden . 
In this ,  though I cannot be said to be a flattering honest man ,  it must not be denied but I am a plain - dealing villain . 	though I am not a flattering ,  righteous man ,  at least you can say that I am honest about being a villain . 
In the meantime ,  let me be that I am ,  and seek not to alter me . 	until that happens ,  let me be who I am and don’t try to change me . 
can you make no use of your discontent ? 	can’t you somehow use your dissatisfaction to your own advantage ? 
I make all use of it ,  for I use it only . 	I use it all the time ,  since it’s all that I have . 
who comes here ? 	who’s that ? 
what news ,  Borachio ? 	what’s going on ,  Borachio ? 
what is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness ? 	who is this fool who wants all the fuss of marriage ? 
marry ,  it is your brother’s right hand . 	your brother’s right - hand man . 
who ? 	who ? 
the most exquisite Claudio ? 	that pretty boy ,  Claudio ? 
even he . 	that’s the one . 
marry ,  on Hero ,  the daughter and heir of Leonato . 	hero ,  the daughter and heir of Leonato . 
a very forward March - chick ! 	a lively young one ! 
how came you to this ? 	how did you learn about this ? 
being entertained for a perfumer ,  as I was smoking a musty room ,  comes me the Prince and Claudio ,  hand in hand ,  in sad conference . 	as I was working on one musty room ,  the Prince and Claudio entered . 
come ,  come ,  let us thither . 	come ,  let’s go to the dance . 
this may prove food to my displeasure . 	this just may cheer me up . 
If I can cross him any way ,  I bless myself every way . 	If there’s any way I can spoil his life ,  I’ll be overjoyed . 
you are both sure ,  and will assist me ? 	you’ll both help me ,  right ? 
to the death ,  my lord . 	until the day we die ,  my lord . 
let us to the great supper . 	let’s go to this great feast . 
we’ll wait upon your lordship . 	lead the way ,  sir . 
was not Count John here at supper ? 	wasn’t Don John at dinner tonight ? 
I saw him not . 	I didn’t see him . 
how tartly that gentleman looks ! 	that man always looks so sour ! 
I never can see him but I am heartburned an hour after . 	just looking at him gives me heartburn . 
he is of a very melancholy disposition . 	he has a very gloomy attitude . 
he were an excellent man that were made just in the midway between him and Benedick . 	It would be excellent if they could make a man halfway between Don John and Benedick . 
the one is too like an image and says nothing ,  and the other too like my lady’s eldest son ,  evermore tattling . 	one of them is too much like a painting of a man—he never speaks—and the other is too much like a spoiled little boy ,  always chattering . 
then half Signor Benedick’s tongue in Count John’s mouth ,  and half Count John’s melancholy in Signor Benedick’s face— With a good leg and a good foot ,  uncle ,  and money enough in his purse ,  such a man would win any woman in the world ,  if he could get her goodwill . 	so ,  the man would talk half as much as Benedick and be half as serious as Don John— And if he were handsome ,  agile ,  and rich ,  too ,  he could have any woman in the world—all he’d need was her good will . 
by my troth ,  niece ,  thou wilt never get thee a husband if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue . 	really ,  niece ,  you’ll never get a husband if you keep saying such harsh things about people . 
In faith ,  she’s too curst . 	honestly ,  she is too ill - tempered . 
you may light on a husband that hath no beard . 	maybe you will find a husband without a beard . 
what should I do with him ? 	and then what would I do with him ? 
well then ,  go you into hell ? 	so you’ll go to hell ? 
no ,  but to the gate ,  and there will the devil meet me like an old cuckold with horns on his head ,  and say ,   “ Get you to heaven ,  Beatrice ,  get you to heaven; here’s no place for you maids .  ”  So deliver I up my apes and away to Saint Peter . 	no ,  just to the gates of hell ,  where the devil will meet me ,  with the horns on his head like a cuckold ,  and say ,   “ Go up to heaven ,  Beatrice . 
for the heavens ,  he shows me where the bachelors sit ,  and there live we as merry as the day is long . 	he will show me the part of heaven where the bachelors sit ,  and I’ll have fun there forever . 
not till God make men of some other metal than earth . 	no ,  I won’t take a husband until they make men out of something other than dirt . 
would it not grieve a woman to be overmastered with a piece of valiant dust ? 	what woman wouldn’t be distressed ,  being lorded over by a handful of dust ? 
to make an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl ? 	can you imagine being hitched to a lump of clay ? 
no ,  uncle ,  I’ll none . 	no ,  uncle ,  I won’t be married . 
If the Prince be too important ,  tell him there is measure in everything ,  and so dance out the answer . 	If he is too insistent ,  tell him that romance is like a dance: it has its own rhythm and timing . 
for hear me ,  Hero ,  wooing ,  wedding ,  and repenting is as a Scotch jig ,  a measure ,  and a cinquepace . 	the wooing is like a Scottish jig: hot and fast and full of whimsy and illusion . 
cousin ,  you apprehend passing shrewdly . 	niece ,  you are exceptionally perceptive . 
I have a good eye ,  uncle . 	I have a good eye ,  uncle . 
I can see a church by daylight . 	I can see what’s in broad daylight . 
the revelers are entering ,  brother . 	the partygoers have arrived . 
make good room . 	let’s give them room . 
lady ,  will you walk a bout with your friend ? 	my lady ,  will you have a dance with me ? 
so you walk softly ,  and look sweetly ,  and say nothing ,  I am yours for the walk ,  and especially when I walk away . 	as long as you move gracefully ,  look handsome ,  and say nothing ,  I’m yours for the dance . 
and when please you to say so ? 	and when will that be ? 
when I like your favor ,  for God defend the lute should be like the case ! 	when I like the way you look ,  for God forbid your face be as ugly as your mask ! 
my visor is Philemon’s roof; within the house is Jove . 	my mask is like the roof of the poor
speak low if you speak love . 	If you wish to speak of love ,  speak more softly . 
well ,  I would you did like me . 	well ,  I wish you liked me . 
which is one ? 	tell me one . 
I say my prayers aloud . 	I say my prayers out loud . 
I love you the better; the hearers may cry  “ Amen .  ”  God match me with a good dancer ! 	that makes me love you even more . 
amen . 	amen . 
no more words . 	go ahead—say  “ Amen .  ”  No more talking . 
the clerk is answered . 	I’ve got my answer . 
at a word ,  I am not . 	no ,  really ,  I’m not . 
I know you by the waggling of your head . 	I can tell by the way you waggle your head . 
to tell you true ,  I counterfeit him . 	really ,  I’m only pretending to be him . 
you could never do him so ill - well unless you were the very man . 	you could only imitate his imperfections so well if you were the man himself . 
here’s his dry hand up and down . 	look ,  you’ve got his wrinkled hands . 
you are he ,  you are he . 	you are Antonio ,  you are he . 
at a word ,  I am not . 	In short ,  I’m not . 
come ,  come ,  do you think I do not know you by your excellent wit ? 	come on ,  do you think I can’t recognize you by your excellent wit ? 
can virtue hide itself ? 	can a good thing hide itself ? 
go to ,  mum ,  you are he . 	be quiet ,  you are Antonio . 
graces will appear ,  and there’s an end . 	a man’s virtues will always show themselves ,  and that’s the end of that . 
will you not tell me who told you so ? 	won’t you tell me who told you that ? 
no ,  you shall pardon me . 	no ,  you’ll have to excuse me . 
nor will you not tell me who you are ? 	and you won’t tell me who you are ? 
not now . 	not now . 
that I was disdainful and that I had my good wit out of The Hundred Merry Tales ! 	who said that I was disdainful ,  and that I got all my best lines out of a bad joke book ?  ! 
well this was Signor Benedick that said so . 	well ,  it must have been Signior Benedick . 
what’s he ? 	who’s that ? 
I am sure you know him well enough . 	I’m sure you know him . 
not I ,  believe me . 	no I don’t ,  believe me . 
did he never make you laugh ? 	what ,  he never made you laugh ? 
In great measure . 	yes ,  heavily . 
there are no faces truer than those that are so washed . 	there’s no face more sincere than one washed in tears . 
how much better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping ! 	and it’s definitely better to cry because you’re happy than laugh because you’re sad ! 
there was none such in the army of any sort . 	there was no Signior Montanto in our army . 
what is he that you ask for ,  niece ? 	who are you talking about ,  niece ? 
my cousin means Signor Benedick of Padua . 	my cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua . 
oh ,  he’s returned ,  and as pleasant as ever he was . 	oh ,  yes ,  Benedick has returned and is as cheerful as ever . 
I pray you ,  what is he ? 	please tell me ,  who is this man ? 
why ,  he is the Prince’s jester ,  a very dull fool ,  only his gift is in devising impossible slanders . 	why ,  he’s the Prince’s fool ,  and a very dull fool at that . 
I am sure he is in the fleet . 	I’m sure he’s out there dancing . 
I would he had boarded me . 	I could have sworn he trampled on me . 
when I know the gentleman ,  I’ll tell him what you say . 	when I meet this gentleman ,  I’ll tell him what you’ve said . 
do ,  do . 	oh ,  please do . 
he’ll but break a comparison or two on me ,  which ,  peradventure not marked or not laughed at ,  strikes him into melancholy ,  and then there’s a partridge wing saved ,  for the fool will eat no supper that night . 	and that will save a partridge wing from being eaten ,  because he’ll be too miserable for dinner . 
we must follow the leaders . 	come on ,  we have to follow the leaders of the dance . 
In every good thing . 	In every good thing they do . 
nay ,  if they lead to any ill ,  I will leave them at the next turning . 	no ,  if they try to lead us to harm ,  I will leave the dance floor at the next song . 
and that is Claudio . 	that’s Claudio . 
you know me well . 	you know me too well . 
I am he . 	I am Benedick . 
signor ,  you are very near my brother in his love . 	sir ,  my brother is very fond of you . 
he is enamored on Hero . 	he is in love with Hero . 
I pray you ,  dissuade him from her . 	please make him change his mind . 
how know you he loves her ? 	how do you know he loves her ? 
I heard him swear his affection . 	I heard him swear he did . 
so did I too ,  and he swore he would marry her tonight . 	I did too ,  and he also swore he would marry her tonight . 
come ,  let us to the banquet . 	come on ,  let’s get to the banquet . 
thus answer I in the name of Benedick ,  But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio . 	though I said my name was Benedick ,  I heard this news with Claudio’s ears . 
tis certain so ,  the Prince woos for himself . 	of course the Prince wants Hero for himself . 
friendship is constant in all other things Save in the office and affairs of love . 	friendship is enduring except when love is involved . 
therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues . 	therefore ,  all lovers should speak for themselves . 
let every eye nogetiate for itself And trust no agent ,  for beauty is a witch Against whose charms faith melteth into blood . 	beauty is a witch whose spells can turn loyalty into passion . 
farewell ,  therefore ,  Hero . 	goodbye then ,  Hero . 
count Claudio ? 	claudio ? 
yea ,  the same . 	yes ,  that’s me . 
come ,  will you go with me ? 	will you come with me ? 
whither ? 	where ? 
I wish him joy of her . 	right over to that  I hope he enjoys her . 
why ,  that’s spoken like an honest drover; so they sell bullocks . 	you sound like a cattle dealer: that’s the way they sell bulls . 
but did you think the Prince would have served you thus ? 	but do you really think the Prince would treat you that way ? 
I pray you ,  leave me . 	please ,  leave me alone . 
ho ,  now you strike like the blind man . 	look at you ,  thrashing about like a blind man . 
twas the boy that stole your meat ,  and you’ll beat the post . 	a boy robbed you ,  but you’ll beat up the post instead . 
If it will not be ,  I’ll leave you . 	If you won’t leave ,  then
alas ,  poor hurt fowl ,  now will he creep into sedges . 	oh ,  the poor bird . 
but that my Lady Beatrice should know me ,  and not know me ! 	but how strange that Beatrice should seem to know who I was and yet not know at the same time . 
the Prince’s fool ! 	the Prince’s fool ”  ! 
ha ,  it may be I go under that title because I am merry . 	maybe they call me that because I am cheerful . 
yea ,  but so I am apt to do myself wrong . 	yes ,  but I am insulting myself by thinking this way . 
I am not so reputed ! 	I don’t have that kind of reputation ! 
well ,  I’ll be revenged as I may . 	well ,  I’ll get my revenge . 
now ,  Signior ,  where’s the Count ? 	now ,  sir ,  where is Claudio ? 
did you see him ? 	did you see him ? 
troth ,  my lord ,  I have played the part of Lady Fame . 	yes ,  my lord ,  I played the part of a gossip and brought him the news . 
I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren . 	I found him here ,   Beating ? 
what’s his fault ? 	why ,  what did he do ? 
the flat transgression of a schoolboy who ,  being overjoyed with finding a birds' nest ,  shows it his companion ,  and he steals it . 	he was like a schoolboy who finds a bird’s nest and happily shows it to his friend ,  who then steals it from him . 
wilt thou make a trust a transgression ? 	what ,  is trusting a friend such a crime ? 
the transgression is in the stealer . 	the criminal is the one who stole the nest . 
the Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you . 	lady Beatrice is angry with you . 
the gentleman that danced with her told her she is much wronged by you . 	the gentleman she danced with told her you insulted her . 
she speaks poniards ,  and every word stabs . 	she speaks daggers ,  and every word stabs . 
If her breath were as terrible as her terminations ,  there were no living near her; she would infect to the north star . 	If her breath were as terrible as her words ,  she would kill every living thing from here to the furthest star . 
I would not marry her ,  though she were endowed with all that Adam had left him before he transgressed . 	I wouldn’t marry her ,  even if she were as blessed as paradise . 
come ,  talk not of her . 	please ,  don’t mention her . 
look ,  here she comes . 	look ,  here she comes . 
will your grace command me any service to the world’s end ? 	your highness ,  could you send me on a mission to the ends of the earth ? 
I will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on . 	I’ll go to the Antipodes for any little errand you can think of . 
marry ,  once before he won it of me with false dice . 	really ,  he won it from me once before in a dishonest game of dice . 
therefore your Grace may well say I have lost it . 	so I suppose your grace can truly say that I have lost it . 
you have put him down ,  lady ,  you have put him down . 	you’ve humiliated him ,  lady: you’ve put him down . 
why ,  how now ,  Count ,  wherefore are you sad ? 	why are you so sad ? 
not sad ,  my lord . 	I’m not sad ,  my lord . 
how then ,  sick ? 	what then ,  sick ? 
neither ,  my lord . 	I’m neither ,  my lord . 
the Count is neither sad ,  nor sick ,  nor merry ,  nor well ,  but civil count ,  civil as an orange ,  and something of that jealous complexion . 	the count is neither sad nor sick nor cheerful nor well—he’s just civil ,  as Seville as an orange ,  with the same jealous - yellow complexion . 
I have broke with her father and his goodwill obtained . 	I’ve told her father ,  and he’s given his permission . 
name the day of marriage ,  and God give thee joy . 	tell us when you wish to get married ,  and may God give you joy . 
count ,  take of me my daughter ,  and with her my fortunes . 	claudio ,  take my daughter ,  and ,  with her ,  take my fortunes . 
his grace hath made the match ,  and all grace say  “ Amen ”  to it . 	the Prince has made the match ,  and may God bless it . 
speak ,  Count ,  ’tis your cue . 	speak ,  Claudio ,  that’s your cue . 
I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange . 	for you ,  I give myself away and I’m ecstatic about the exchange . 
In faith ,  lady ,  you have a merry heart . 	truly ,  lady ,  you have a merry heart . 
yea ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
I thank it ,  poor fool ,  it keeps on the windy side of care . 	I thank my heart—the poor fool—for it keeps away from seriousness . 
my cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her heart . 	look ,  my cousin is whispering to Claudio that she loves him . 
and so she doth ,  cousin . 	why ,  you’re absolutely right ,  cousin . 
good Lord for alliance ! 	thank the lord for alliances ! 
thus goes everyone to the world but I ,  and I am sunburnt . 	so everyone goes off into the world except me ,  who stays in because I’m sunburned . 
I may sit in a corner and cry ,   “ Heigh - ho for a husband !  ”  Lady Beatrice ,  I will get you one . 	I should sit in the corner and sing that song ,   “ Heigh - Ho for a Husband !  ”  Lady Beatrice ,  I’ll get you a husband . 
I would rather have one of your father’s getting . 	I’d rather get a husband from your father . 
hath your grace ne'er a brother like you ? 	don’t you have any brothers like you ? 
your father got excellent husbands ,  if a maid could come by them . 	your father’s sons would make excellent husbands ,  if only a girl could catch one for herself . 
will you have me ,  lady ? 	will you take me ,  my lady ? 
no ,  my lord ,  unless I might have another for working days . 	no ,  my lord ,  unless I could have another husband for the work week . 
your Grace is too costly to wear every day . 	you are too expensive to wear every day . 
but I beseech your Grace pardon me . 	but please ,  forgive me ,  your highness . 
I was born to speak all mirth and no  matter . 	I was born to speak cleverly ,  not seriously . 
niece ,  will you look to those things I told you of ? 	niece ,  will you take care of those things I mentioned ? 
I cry you mercy ,  uncle . —By your Grace’s pardon . 	oh ,  yes ,  I’m sorry ,  uncle . —If you’ll excuse me ,  your grace . 
by my troth ,  a pleasant - spirited lady . 	I swear ,  she’s a very good - natured lady . 
there’s little of the melancholy element in her ,  my lord . 	there’s very little about her that’s gloomy ,  my lord . 
she is never sad but when she sleeps ,  and not ever sad then ,  for I have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked herself with laughing . 	she’s only sad when she sleeps—and not even then . 
she cannot endure to hear tell of a husband . 	she can’t stand to hear about getting a husband . 
oh ,  by no means . 	no ,  not at all . 
she mocks all her wooers out of suit . 	she mocks all her suitors so severely that they drop the suit . 
she were an excellent wife for Benedict . 	she would make a good wife for Benedick . 
o Lord ,  my lord ,  if they were but a week married ,  they would talk themselves mad . 	oh ,  Lord ,  if they were married ,  they’d drive themselves crazy within a week . 
county Claudio ,  when mean you to go to church ? 	count Claudio ,  when do you plan to go to church and be married ? 
tomorrow ,  my lord . 	tomorrow ,  my lord . 
my lord ,  I am for you ,  though it cost me ten nights' watchings . 	my lord ,  I will help you ,  even if it means I have to stay awake for ten nights straight . 
and I ,  my lord . 	me too ,  my lord . 
and you too ,  gentle Hero ? 	and you ,  sweet Hero ? 
I will do any modest office ,  my lord ,  to help my cousin to a good husband . 	I’ll do any decent thing ,  my lord ,  to help my cousin get a good husband . 
and Benedick is not the unhopefulest husband that I know . 	and Benedick is not the worst husband I can think of . 
thus far can I praise him: he is of a noble strain ,  of approved valor ,  and confirmed honesty . 	this much I can say about him: he is well - born ,  has proven his bravery in battle ,  and has established his good character . 
go in with me ,  and I will tell you my drift . 	come inside with me ,  and I will tell you my plan . 
faith ,  niece ,  you tax Signor Benedick too much ,  but he’ll be meet with you ,  I doubt it not . 	but I’m sure he’ll get even with you . 
he hath done good service ,  lady ,  in these wars . 	signior Benedick served well in the war ,  my lady . 
you had musty victual ,  and he hath holp to eat it . 	you had rotten food ,  and he helped you eat it . 
and a good soldier too ,  lady . 	he’s a good soldier too ,  lady . 
a lord to a lord ,  a man to a man ,  stuffed with all honorable virtues . 	he’s a lord to a lord and a man to a man . 
he is no less than a stuffed man . 	he is positively stuffed with honorable virtues . 
but for the stuffing—well ,  we are all mortal . 	absolutely—he is stuffed ,  like a dummy . 
you must not ,  sir ,  mistake my niece . 	please don’t take my niece the wrong way ,  sir . 
there is a kind of merry war betwixt Signor Benedick and her . 	benedick and Beatrice have been waging a war of wits between themselves . 
they never meet but there’s a skirmish of wit between them . 	whenever they meet ,  there’s a little battle . 
he hath every month a new sworn brother . 	every month he has a new best friend . 
Is ’t possible ? 	Is that possible ? 
It is so . 	It’s arranged . 
the Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of Leonato . 	the Count Claudio will marry Leonato’s daughter . 
yea ,  my lord ,  but I can cross it . 	yes ,  my lord ,  but I can spoil it . 
any bar ,  any cross ,  any impediment will be med'cinable to me . 	any obstacle or barrier to Claudio’s happiness will be like medicine to me . 
I am sick in displeasure to him ,  and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges evenly with mine . 	I hate him so much it makes me sick ,  and whoever can ruin his happiness will make me happy . 
how canst thou cross this marriage ? 	how will you wreck this marriage ? 
not honestly ,  my lord ,  but so covertly that no dishonesty shall appear in me . 	I can only do it by lying ,  my lord ,  but I can do it so secretly that no one will suspect me . 
show me briefly how . 	quickly ,  tell me how . 
I think I told your lordship a year since how much I am in the favor of Margaret ,  the waiting gentlewoman to Hero . 	I think it was a year ago that I told you how much Margaret ,  Hero’s servant woman ,  likes me . 
I remember . 	I remember . 
I can ,  at any unseasonable instant of the night ,  appoint her to look out at her lady’s chamber window . 	I can arrange it so that at some indecent hour of the night ,  she looks out Hero’s bedroom window . 
what life is in that to be the death of this marriage ? 	how will that kill this marriage ? 
the poison of that lies in you to temper . 	that part is up to you . 
what proof shall I make of that ? 	what will be my evidence ? 
proof enough to misuse the Prince ,  to vex Claudio ,  to undo Hero ,  and kill Leonato . 	evidence enough to deceive the Prince ,  anger Claudio ,  ruin Hero ,  and kill Leonato . 
look you for any other issue ? 	Is there anything else you wish ? 
only to despite them ,  I will endeavor anything . 	that’s all I want ,  and I’ll do anything to accomplish it . 
go then ,  find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count Claudio alone . 	find a time to speak with Don Pedro and Claudio alone . 
tell them that you know that Hero loves me . 	tell them you know that Hero loves me . 
Intend a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio ,  as in love of your brother’s honor ,  who hath made this match ,  and his friend’s reputation ,  who is thus like to be cozened with the semblance of a maid ,  that you have discovered thus . 	pretend to be very concerned about both the Prince ,  who has compromised his honor by making the match ,  and Claudio ,  whose reputation will be ruined by this woman who’s pretending to be a virgin . 
they will scarcely believe this without trial . 	of course ,  they won’t believe you without proof . 
be you constant in the accusation ,  and my cunning shall not shame me . 	If you make the accusation convincingly ,  then my cunning won’t fail me . 
I will presently go learn their day of marriage . 	I’ll go now to find out the date of the wedding . 
boy ! 	boy ! 
signior ? 	yes Signior ? 
In my chamber window lies a book . 	In my bedroom window there is a book . 
bring it hither to me in the orchard . 	go get it and bring it to me here in the orchard . 
I am here already ,  sir . 	I’m already here ,  sir . 
I know that ,  but I would have thee hence and here again . 	I see that you are here ,  but I’d like you to go there and then come back again . 
I have known when there was no music with him but the drum and the fife ,  and now had he rather hear the tabor and the pipe . 	I knew him when he listened to nothing but the military drum and fife; now he would rather hear the sweet and refined music of the tabor and pipe . 
I have known when he would have walked ten mile afoot to see a good armor ,  and now will he lie ten nights awake carving the fashion of a new doublet . 	I knew him when he would’ve walked ten miles to see a well - crafted suit of armor; now he spends ten nights awake in his room designing himself a fancy new jacket . 
I cannot tell; I think not . 	I’m not sure ,  but I don’t think so . 
I will not be sworn but love may transform me to an oyster ,  but I’ll take my oath on it ,  till he have made an oyster of me ,  he shall never make me such a fool . 	I can’t promise that love won’t transform me ,  but I can promise you this: until I truly fall in love ,  a woman will never make me act like such a fool . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
the Prince and Monsieur Love ! 	look ,  it’s the Prince and Mr .  Love . 
I will hide me in the arbor . 	I’ll hide in the arbor . 
come ,  shall we hear this music ? 	well ,  should we hear some music ? 
yea ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
come ,  Balthasar ,  we’ll hear that song again . 	come on ,  Balthasar ,  let’s hear that song again . 
o ,  good my lord ,  tax not so bad a voice To slander music anymore than once . 	oh ,  my good lord ,  don’t make me insult music again with my awful singing . 
I pray thee ,  sing ,  and let me woo no more . 	come on ,  please sing . 
note this before my notes: There’s not a note of mine that’s worth the noting . 	just know this before I begin: I can’t play a single note that’s worthy of note . 
strange that sheeps' guts should hale souls out of men’s bodies ? 	listen to him speaking in quarter notes ! 
by my troth ,  a good song . 	that’s a good song . 
and an ill singer ,  my lord . 	and a bad singer ,  my lord . 
yea ,  marry ,  dost thou hear ,  Balthasar ? 	yes ,  do you hear me ,  Balthasar ? 
I pray thee ,  get us some excellent music ,  for tomorrow night we would have it at the Lady Hero’s chamber window	please ,  get some excellent music ,  because tomorrow we want to serenade Lady Hero at her bedroom window . 
the best I can ,  my lord . 	I’ll do the best I can ,  my lord . 
do so . 	please do . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
come hither ,  Leonato . 	come here ,  Leonato . 
what was it you told me of today ,  that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signor Benedick ? 	what was it that you told me today—that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick ? 
oh ,  ay . 	oh yes . 
sits . —I did never think that lady would have loved any man . 	I didn’t ,  either . 
no ,  nor I neither ,  but most wonderful that she should so dote on Signor Benedick ,  whom she hath in all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor . 	but how wonderful that she should be so fond of Signior Benedick ,  whom she has always appeared to hate . 
by my troth ,  my lord ,  I cannot tell what to think of it ,  but that she loves him with an enraged affection ,  it is past the infinite of thought . 	really ,  my lord ,  I don’t know what to make of it ,  but she loves him with such a passion that it’s past all understanding . 
may be she doth but counterfeit . 	maybe she’s just pretending . 
faith ,  like enough . 	yes ,  that’s quite likely . 
o God ! 	oh God ! 
counterfeit ? 	pretending ? 
there was never counterfeit of passion came so near the life of passion as she discovers it . 	no one has ever faked passion as skillfully as this ,  then . 
why ,  what effects of passion shows she ? 	why ,  what symptoms of love does she exhibit ? 
what effects ,  my lord ? 	what symptoms ,  my lord ? 
she will sit you—you heard my daughter tell you how . 	she will have a seat—you heard my daughter tell you how . 
she did indeed . 	yes ,  she did tell us . 
how ,  how I pray you ? 	please ,  please tell me ! 
you amaze me . 	this is amazing . 
I would have thought her spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection . 	I would have thought she was invincible against any assault of love . 
I would have sworn it had ,  my lord ,  especially against Benedick . 	I would have sworn that ,  too ,  my lord ,  especially against Benedick . 
hath she made her affection known to Benedick ? 	has she told Benedick how she feels ? 
no ,  and swears she never will . 	no ,  and she swears she never will . 
that’s her torment . 	that’s what’s driving her crazy . 
tis true indeed ,  so your daughter says . 	It’s true ,  Hero says so . 
my daughter tells us all . 	my daughter told me everything . 
now you talk of a sheet of paper ,  I remember a pretty jest your daughter told . 	now that you speak of paper ,  I remember a funny story of Hero’s . 
oh ,  when she had writ it and was reading it over ,  she found  “ Benedick ”  and  “ Beatrice ”  between the sheet ? 	oh ,  you mean when Beatrice writes a letter and Hero sees that it has  “ Benedick ”  and  “ Beatrice ”  written all over it ? 
that . 	yes ,  that’s the one . 
o ,  she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence ,  railed at herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she knew would flout her . 	oh ,  she tears that letter into a thousand small pieces and berates herself for being so forward as to write a letter to a man she knows would mock her . 
It is very true . 	It’s true . 
It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other ,  if she will not discover it . 	If she won’t tell Benedick ,  someone else should . 
to what end ? 	and what would that accomplish ? 
he would make but a sport of it and torment the poor lady worse . 	he’ll just turn it into a joke and torment the poor woman even more . 
an he should ,  it were an alms to hang him . 	If he did that ,  it would be a charitable deed to hang him . 
she’s an excellent sweet lady ,  and ,  out of all suspicion ,  she is virtuous . 	she’s an excellent ,  sweet woman ,  and there’s no doubt that she is virtuous . 
and she is exceeding wise . 	and she is very smart . 
oh ,  my lord ,  wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body ,  we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory . 	oh ,  my lord ,  when wisdom and passion are in one body ,  it’s ten to one that the passion will win . 
I am sorry for her ,  as I have just cause ,  being her uncle and her guardian . 	I am sorry for her ,  as I should be ,  since I am both her uncle and her guardian . 
I would she had bestowed this dotage on me . 	I wish she were in love with me instead . 
I would have daffed all other respects and made her half myself . 	I would have thrown away all other considerations and made her my wife . 
I pray you tell Benedick of it and hear what he will say . 	please ,  tell Benedick about her feelings and see what he has to say . 
were it good ,  think you ? 	Is that a good idea ,  do you think ? 
hero thinks surely she will die ,  for she says she will die if he love her not ,  and she will die ere she make her love known ,  and she will die if he woo her rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness . 	hero thinks Beatrice will surely die ,  for she says she’ll die if he doesn’t love her ,  and that she’ll die before she tells him ,  and she’ll die if he woos her and she’s made to hold back even one of her usual insults . 
she doth well . 	she’s probably right . 
If she should make tender of her love ,  ’tis very possible he’ll scorn it ,  for the man ,  as you know all ,  hath a contemptible spirit . 	If she offers him her love ,  it’s very possible that he’ll scorn it ,  since ,  as we all know ,  he tends to be contemptuous . 
he is a very proper man . 	he’s a very proper man . 
before God ,  and in my mind ,  very wise . 	and I swear to God he’s very smart . 
he doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit . 	he does indeed show sparks of something like wit . 
very easily possible . 	It’s entirely possible . 
I see ,  lady ,  the gentleman is not in your books . 	I can see you don’t like this gentleman . 
no . 	no ,  absolutely not . 
but I pray you ,  who is his companion ? 	but please tell me ,  who’s his best friend ? 
he is most in the company of the right noble Claudio . 	he spends most of his time with the good ,  noble Claudio . 
o Lord ,  he will hang upon him like a disease ! 	oh God ,  Benedick will plague him like a disease ! 
god help the noble Claudio ! 	god help Claudio ! 
If he have caught the Benedick ,  it will cost him a thousand pound ere a be cured . 	If he’s caught the Benedick ,  he’ll lose all his money before he’s cured . 
I will hold friends with you ,  lady . 	I’m going to make sure I stay on your good side ,  lady . 
do ,  good friend . 	do that ,  my friend . 
you will never run mad ,  niece . 	you will never fall victim to Benedick’s charms ,  my niece . 
no ,  not till a hot January . 	no ,  not until we see a hot January . 
don Pedro is approached . 	don Pedro is here . 
If he do fear God ,  he must necessarily keep peace . 	If he fears God ,  he must necessarily keep the peace . 
If he break the peace ,  he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling . 	If he breaks the peace ,  he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling . 
well ,  I am sorry for your niece . 	well ,  I’m sorry for your niece . 
shall we go seek Benedick and tell him of her love ? 	should we go find Benedick and tell him about Beatrice’s love ? 
against my will ,  I am sent to bid you come in to dinner . 	against my will ,  I’ve been told to bring you in to dinner . 
fair Beatrice ,  I thank you for your pains . 	lovely Beatrice ,  I thank you for taking the pains to tell me that . 
I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to thank me . 	I didn’t take any more pains bringing this message than you took pains in thanking me . 
If it had been painful ,  I would not have come . 	If the job had been painful ,  I would not have come . 
you take pleasure then in the message ? 	so you took pleasure in bringing me this message ? 
yea ,  just so much as you may take upon a knife’s point and choke a daw withal . 	yes ,  as much pleasure as one might take in choking a bird at knifepoint . 
you have no stomach ,  Signior . 	you don’t want to eat ,  sir ? 
fare you well . 	goodbye ,  then . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner .  ”  There’s a double meaning in that . 	against my will ,  I’ve been told to bring you in to dinner .  ”  There’s a double meaning in that . 
I took no more pains for those thanks than you took pains to thank me .  ”  That’s as much as to say ,   “ Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks .  ”  If I do not take pity of her ,  I am a villain . 	I didn’t take any more pains bringing this message than you took pains in thanking me .  ”  That’s like saying ,   “ Any thing I do for you is as easy as saying ‘thank you . ’ ”  If this doesn’t move me to take pity on her ,  I’m a horrible person . 
If I do not love her ,  I am a Jew . 	If I don’t love her ,  I’m completely
good Margaret ,  run thee to the parlor . 	margaret ,  run into the sitting room . 
there shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice Proposing with the Prince and Claudio . 	you’ll find Beatrice there ,  talking to Claudio and the Prince . 
whisper her ear and tell her I and Ursula Walk in the orchard ,  and our whole discourse Is all of her . 	whisper to her that Ursula and I are walking in the orchard and that we’re talking all about her . 
say that thou overheardst us ,  And bid her steal into the pleachèd bower Where honeysuckles ripened by the sun Forbid the sun to enter ,  like favorites Made proud by princes ,  that advance their pride Against that power that bred it . 	tell her you heard us ,  and that she should sneak into the arbor where the crisscrossing branches overhead keep the honeysuckles out of the sun . 
there will she hide her To listen our propose . 	she can hide there and eavesdrop on our conversation . 
this is thy office . 	this is your job . 
bear thee well in it and leave us alone . 	do it well ,  and then leave us . 
I’ll make her come ,  I warrant you ,  presently . 	I’ll make her come right away ,  I promise you . 
now ,  Ursula ,  when Beatrice doth come ,  As we do trace this alley up and down ,  Our talk must only be of Benedick . 	all right Ursula ,  as Beatrice arrives ,  we’ll be walking up and down this alley and speaking about nothing but Benedick . 
when I do name him ,  let it be thy part To praise him more than ever man did merit . 	whenever I mention him ,  praise him more than any man deserves . 
my talk to thee must be how Benedick Is sick in love with Beatrice . 	It’ll be my job to talk about how Benedick is sick with love for Beatrice . 
fear you not my part of the dialogue . 	let’s start . 
but are you sure That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely ? 	but are you sure that Benedick loves Beatrice that much ? 
so says the Prince and my new - trothèd lord . 	that’s what the Prince and my fiancé say . 
and did they bid you tell her of it ,  madam ? 	and did they ask you to tell Beatrice about this ,  madam ? 
they did entreat me to acquaint her of it ,  But I persuaded them ,  if they loved Benedick ,  To wish him wrestle with affection And never to let Beatrice know of it . 	they did want me to tell her ,  but I persuaded them that ,  if they truly loved Benedick ,  they would try to get him to battle his emotions and keep Beatrice in the dark . 
why did you so ? 	why did you do that ? 
doth not the gentleman Deserve as full as fortunate a bed As ever Beatrice shall couch upon ? 	doesn’t Benedick deserve as much luck with a mate as he would have with Beatrice ? 
what’s the matter ,  lieutenant ? 	what’s the matter ,  lieutenant ? 
I’ll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle . 	I’ll beat him until the welts look like basket - weave ! 
beat me ? 	you’ll beat me ? 
dost thou prate ,  rogue ? 	are you talking ,  you villain ? 
nay ,  good lieutenant ! 	no ,  don’t hit him ,  lieutenant ! 
I pray you ,  sir ,  hold your hand . 	please ,  sir ,  restrain yourself . 
let me go ,  sir ,  or I’ll knock you o'er the mazzard . 	let me go ,  or I’ll knock you on the head . 
come ,  come ,  you’re drunk . 	come on ,  you’re drunk . 
drunk ? 	drunk ? 
alas ,  gentlemen— Help ,  ho ! — Lieutenant—sir ,  Montano— Help ,  masters ! —Here’s a goodly watch indeed ! 	no ,  lieutenant—God ,  gentlemen—Help—Lieutenant—sir ,  Montano—Help ,  men ! —The night guard is coming ! 
who’s that which rings the bell ? —Diablo ,  ho ! 	who’s sounding that alarm ? 
the town will rise . 	the whole town will riot ! 
fie ,  Fie ,  lieutenant ,  You’ll be ashamed for ever . 	you’ll be ashamed of this forever ! 
what is the matter here ? 	what is the matter here ? 
he dies ! 	I’ll kill him ! 
hold ,  for your lives ! 	stop right now ! 
hold ,  ho ! 	stop ! 
hold ! 	stop ! 
the general speaks to you . 	the general is talking to you ! 
hold ,  for shame ! 	stop ,  for God’s sake ! 
for Christian shame ,  put by this barbarous brawl . 	for heaven’s sake ,  stop this savage brawl ! 
he that stirs next to carve for his own rage Holds his soul light ,  he dies upon his motion . 	the next man who swings his sword must not care about his life ,  because the instant he strikes ,  he dies . 
silence that dreadful bell ,  it frights the isle From her propriety . 	stop that alarm from ringing ,  it’s scaring the islanders . 
what is the matter ,  masters ? — Honest Iago ,  that looks dead with grieving ,  Speak ,  who began this ? 	what’s the matter here ,  gentlemen ? —Honest Iago ,  you look upset . 
on thy love ,  I charge thee . 	answer me . 
I do not know . 	I don’t know . 
swords out ,  and tilting one at other’s breasts In opposition bloody . 	I don’t
I cannot speak Any beginning to this peevish odds ,  And would in action glorious I had lost Those legs that brought me to a part of it . 	I’d rather have lost my legs in battle than be a part of this ! 
worthy Montano ,  you were wont be civil . 	you’re famous for it . 
what’s the matter That you unlace your reputation thus And spend your rich opinion for the name Of a night - brawler ? 	what in the world made you risk your reputation like this and become a street brawler ? 
give me answer to it . 	tell me . 
worthy Othello ,  I am hurt to danger . 	othello ,  I’ve been seriously hurt . 
nor know I aught By me that’s said or done amiss this night ,  Unless self - charity be sometimes a vice ,  And to defend ourselves it be a sin When violence assails us . 	I didn’t do anything wrong that I know of ,  unless it was a sin to defend myself when someone attacked me . 
now ,  by heaven ,  My blood begins my safer guides to rule ,  And passion ,  having my best judgment collied ,  Assays to lead the way . 	all right ,  now I’m starting to lose my cool . 
tis monstrous . 	that’s unbelievably bad . 
Iago ,  who began ’t ? 	Iago ,  who started it ? 
touch me not so near . 	you’re hitting close to home there . 
I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth Than it should do offence to Michael Cassio . 	I’d rather cut my tongue out of my mouth than say anything bad about Michael Cassio . 
yet I persuade myself to speak the truth Shall nothing wrong him . 	but I don’t think it’ll hurt him to tell the truth . 
when I came back— For this was brief— I found them close together At blow and thrust ,  even as again they were When you yourself did part them . 	they were nearly killing each other ,  as you saw when you pulled them apart . 
more of this matter cannot I report . 	I can’t tell you anything else . 
though Cassio did some little wrong to him ,  As men in rage strike those that wish them best ,  Yet surely Cassio ,  I believe ,  received From him that fled some strange indignity Which patience could not pass . 	cassio was wrong to hurt Montano ,  who was only trying to help him ,  but I’m sure the guy who ran away must have offended Cassio in some terrible way ,  and Cassio couldn’t let it pass . 
I’ll make thee an example . 	I’ll make you an example for the others to learn from . 
what’s the matter ,  dear ? 	what’s the matter ,  dear ? 
all’s well ,  sweeting ,  Come away to bed . — Myself will be your surgeon . 	everything’s fine ,  now ,  sweetheart . 
what ,  are you hurt ,  lieutenant ? 	are you hurt ,  lieutenant ? 
ay ,  past all surgery . 	yes ,  but no doctor can help me . 
marry ,  heaven forbid ! 	oh I hope that’s not true ! 
but thou must needs be sure My spirits and my place have in their power To make this bitter to thee . 	you know I’m powerful enough to make you pay for this . 
patience ,  good sir . 	please wait ,  sir . 
what tell’st thou me of robbing ? 	why are you talking about robbery ? 
because we come to do you service and you think we are ruffians ,  you’ll have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse . 	we come here to help you and you treat us like thugs ,  but you let an African horse climb all over your daughter . 
you’ll have your nephews neigh to you . 	your grandsons will neigh to you like horses . 
you’ll have coursers for cousins and gennets for germans . 	your whole family will be ruined . 
what profane wretch art thou ? 	what kind of crude jerk are you ? 
I am one ,  sir ,  that comes to tell you your daughter and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs . 	the kind that tells you that the Moor is having sex with your daughter right now . 
thou art a villain ! 	you’re a villain ! 
you are a senator ! 	you’re a senator ! 
this thou shalt answer . 	you’re going to pay for this ,  Roderigo . 
I know thee ,  Roderigo . 	I know who you are . 
sir ,  I will answer any thing . 	I’ll answer for everything . 
reputation ,  reputation ,  reputation ! 	my reputation ,  my reputation ! 
my reputation ,  Iago ,  my reputation ! 	oh ,  my reputation ,  Iago ,  my reputation ! 
as I am an honest man ,  I thought you had received some bodily wound . 	I swear I thought you meant you’d been hurt physically . 
there is more sense in that than in reputation . 	your physical health matters more than your reputation . 
you have lost no reputation at all unless you repute yourself such a loser . 	you haven’t lost it unless you think you have . 
what ,  man ,  there are ways to recover the general again . 	there are lots of ways to get on the general’s good side again . 
sue to him again and he’s yours . 	go to him ,  petition him . 
drunk ? 	drunk ? 
and speak parrot ? 	babbling senselessly ? 
and squabble ? 	squabbling ? 
swagger ? 	swaggering ? 
and discourse fustian with one’s own shadow ? 	ranting and raving to my own shadow ! 
o thou invisible spirit of wine ,  if thou hast no name to be known by ,  let us call thee devil ! 	oh ,  wine is the devil ! 
what was he that you followed with your sword ? 	who were you chasing with your sword ? 
what had he done to you ? 	what did he do to you ? 
I know not . 	I don’t know . 
Is ’t possible ? 	Is that possible ? 
I remember a mass of things ,  but nothing distinctly . 	I remember a jumble of impressions ,  but nothing distinctly . 
a quarrel ,  but nothing wherefore . 	I remember a fight ,  but not why we were fighting . 
that we should ,  with joy ,  pleasance revel and applause ,  transform ourselves into beasts ! 	why do we party until we’re like animals ? 
why ,  but you are now well enough . 	you seem all right now . 
how came you thus recovered ? 	how did you get better ? 
one unperfectness shows me another ,  to make me frankly despise myself . 	one weakness led to another ,  to make me hate myself . 
come ,  you are too severe a moraler . 	come on ,  you’re being too hard on yourself . 
as the time ,  the place ,  and the condition of this country stands ,  I could heartily wish this had not befallen . 	I wish none of this had happened ,  given the situation here ,  and your rank . 
but since it is as it is ,  mend it for your own good . 	but since this has happened ,  you should fix it for your own good . 
I will ask him for my place again ,  he shall tell me I am a drunkard . 	I’ll ask him for my position back again ,  and he’ll tell me I’m a drunk . 
had I as many mouths as Hydra ,  such an answer would stop them all . 	even if I had a whole bunch of mouths ,  I wouldn’t be able to answer that . 
to be now a sensible man ,  by and by a fool ,  and presently a beast ! 	I was a reasonable man ,  then I became a fool ,  and finally a beast ! 
oh ,  strange ! 	oh ,  how strange ! 
every inordinate cup is unblessed and the ingredient is a devil . 	every glass of liquor is damned ,  and the devil’s the main ingredient ! 
come ,  come ,  good wine is a good familiar creature ,  if it be well used . 	come on now ,  wine is good for you ,  if you know how to use it . 
exclaim no more against it . 	don’t say anything bad about wine anymore . 
and ,  good lieutenant ,  I think you think I love you . 	lieutenant ,  I think you know I’m your friend . 
I have well approved it ,  sir . 	I know that ,  sir . 
I drunk ! 	Imagine ,  me ,  a drunk ! 
you or any man living may be drunk at a time ,  man . 	any man can get drunk sometime . 
I tell you what you shall do . 	I’ll tell you what to do . 
our general’s wife is now the general . 	othello’s wife has a lot of influence now . 
confess yourself freely to her ,  importune her help to put you in your place again . 	ask her to help you get back your position . 
she is of so free ,  so kind ,  so apt ,  so blessed a disposition ,  she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested . 	she is so generous ,  kind ,  and ready to help that she thinks it’s wrong not to do everything she can ,  even more than she is asked to do . 
this broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter ,  and ,  my fortunes against any lay worth naming ,  this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before . 	ask her to help you heal the rift between her husband and you . 
you advise me well . 	that’s good advice . 
I protest ,  in the sincerity of love and honest kindness . 	I believe it completely . 
I think it freely ,  and betimes in the morning I will beseech the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me . 	early in the morning I’ll go visit Desdemona and plead my case . 
I am desperate of my fortunes if they check me . 	my situation is desperate . 
you are in the right . 	you’re doing the right thing . 
good night ,  lieutenant ,  I must to the watch . 	good night ,  lieutenant . 
good night ,  honest Iago . 	good night ,  honest Iago . 
and what’s he then that says I play the villain ? 	who can say I’m evil when my advice is so good ? 
when this advice is free I give and honest ,  Probal to thinking and indeed the course To win the Moor again ? 	that’s really the best way to win the Moor back again . 
for ’tis most easy Th' inclining Desdemona to subdue In any honest suit . 	It’s easy to get Desdemona on your side . 
she’s framed as fruitful As the free elements . 	she’s full of good intentions . 
how am I then a villain To counsel Cassio to this parallel course ,  Directly to his good ? 	how am I evil to advise Cassio to do exactly what’ll do him good ? 
when devils will the blackest sins put on They do suggest at first with heavenly shows As I do now . 	when devils are about to commit their biggest sins they put on their most heavenly faces ,  just like I’m doing now . 
and by how much she strives to do him good She shall undo her credit with the Moor . 	the more she
so will I turn her virtue into pitch And out of her own goodness make the net That shall enmesh them all . 	and that’s how I’ll turn her good intentions into a big trap to snag them all . 
how now ,  Roderigo ! 	hello ,  Roderigo ! 
my money is almost spent ,  I have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled ,  and I think the issue will be I shall have so much experience for my pains . 	I’ve spent most of my money ,  and tonight I got beaten up . 
and so ,  with no money at all and a little more wit ,  return again to Venice . 	so with no money ,  but a little more wisdom ,  I’m going back to Venice . 
how poor are they that have not patience ! 	you’re a poor man if you’re this impatient ! 
what wound did ever heal but by degrees ? 	no ,  it heals gradually . 
thou know’st we work by wit and not by witchcraft ,  And wit depends on dilatory time . 	we achieve things with our intelligence ,  not by magic ,  and intelligent planning takes time . 
does’t not go well ? 	aren’t things going well ? 
In troth ,  ’tis morning . 	my God ,  it’s morning . 
pleasure and action make the hours seem short . 	all this excitement has made the time fly by . 
retire thee ,  go where thou art billeted . 	go back to where you’re staying and go to sleep . 
nay ,  get thee gone . 	go . 
two things are to be done: My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress . 	now two things still need to be done . 
I’ll set her on . 	I’ll put her on that . 
ay ,  that’s the way . 	yes ,  that’s the way I’ll do it . 
masters ,  play here ,  I will content your pains . 	I’ll pay you for your trouble . 
are these ,  I pray you ,  wind instruments ? 	are these wind instruments ? 
ay ,  marry ,  are they ,  sir . 	yes ,  they are . 
oh ,  thereby hangs a tail . 	oh ,  there’s the problem . 
whereby hangs a tale ,  sir ? 	what’s the problem ? 
well ,  sir ,  we will not . 	well ,  we’ll stop ,  then . 
If you have any music that may not be heard ,  to ’t again . 	If you’ve got any music that can’t be heard ,  then play that . 
but ,  as they say ,  to hear music the general does not greatly care . 	but as I said ,  the general isn’t really in the mood to hear music now . 
we have none such ,  sir . 	we don’t have any music that can’t be heard . 
then put up your pipes in your bag ,  for I’ll away . 	then pack up your instruments and go away . 
go ,  vanish into air ,  away ! 	go ! 
dost thou hear ,  my honest friend ? 	do you hear ,  my friend ? 
prithee ,  keep up thy quillets . 	please don’t play games . 
she is stirring ,  sir . 	cASSIO  She’s awake ,  sir . 
If she will stir hither ,  I shall seem to notify unto her . 	If she feels like coming over here ,  I’ll give her your message . 
In happy time ,  Iago . 	good to see you ,  Iago . 
you have not been abed ,  then ? 	you didn’t go to sleep ,  then ? 
why ,  no . 	no . 
my suit to her Is that she will to virtuous Desdemona Procure me some access . 	I’m going to ask her to let me talk to Desdemona . 
I humbly thank you for’t . 	I humbly thank you . 
good morrow ,  good Lieutenant . 	even for a  Good morning ,  lieutenant . 
I am sorry For your displeasure ,  but all will sure be well . 	I’m sorry about what happened ,  but I’m sure everything will turn out all right . 
the general and his wife are talking of it ,  And she speaks for you stoutly . 	the general and his wife are talking about it now ,  and she’s defending you strongly . 
the Moor replies That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus And great affinity ,  and that in wholesome wisdom He might not but refuse you . 	the Moor says the man you hurt is very important in Cyprus ,  and that under the circumstances he has no choice but to refuse to reinstate you . 
but he protests he loves you And needs no other suitor but his likings To take the safest occasion by the front To bring you in again . 	but he says he still loves and respects you ,  and based on his own feelings alone he’s looking for an opportunity to safely take you back . 
yet I beseech you ,  If you think fit ,  or that it may be done ,  Give me advantage of some brief discourse With Desdemona alone . 	please find a way to give me some time alone with Desdemona ,  if you think that’s all right . 
pray you come in . 	please come in . 
I will bestow you where you shall have time To speak your bosom freely . 	I’ll take you to a place where you can speak freely . 
I am much bound to you . 	thank you very much . 
these letters give ,  Iago ,  to the pilot ,  And by him do my duties to the senate . 	Iago ,  give these letters to the ship’s captain who brought me here ,  and ask him to pay my respects to the Senate of Venice . 
that done ,  I will be walking on the works ,  Repair there to me . 	now that’s done ,  I’m going to walk on the fortification walls . 
well ,  my good lord ,  I’ll do ’t . 	I will ,  my lord . 
this fortification ,  gentlemen ,  shall we see ’t ? 	shall we go see this fortification ,  men ? 
we’ll wait upon your lordship . 	we’re at your service ,  my lord . 
be thou assured ,  good Cassio ,  I will do All my abilities in thy behalf . 	I’ll do everything I can for you ,  Cassio . 
good madam ,  do . 	please do ,  madam . 
do not doubt ,  Cassio ,  But I will have my lord and you again As friendly as you were . 	I’m sure you and my husband will be as friendly as you were before . 
you do love my lord . 	yes ,  my lady . 
ay ,  but ,  lady ,  That policy may either last so long ,  Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet ,  Or breed itself so out of circumstances ,  That ,  I being absent and my place supplied ,  My general will forget my love and service . 	but those political considerations might last such a long time that the general will forget my love and service ,  especially if I’m gone and someone else has my job . 
my lord shall never rest ,  I’ll watch him tame and talk him out of patience . 	my husband will never get a moment’s rest ,  I’ll keep him up at night talking about you until he runs out
but if you know not this my manners tell me We have your wrong rebuke . 	but if you didn’t know about it ,  then you were wrong to get mad at us . 
do not believe That ,  from the sense of all civility ,  I thus would play and trifle with your reverence . 	I’d never play pranks on you . 
If she be in her chamber or your house ,  Let loose on me the justice of the state For thus deluding you . 	If she is ,  you can sue me for lying to you . 
strike on the tinder ,  ho ! 	light the candles ! 
give me a taper ,  call up all my people ! 	wake up my whole household ! 
this accident is not unlike my dream ,  Belief of it oppresses me already . 	I dreamt about this . 
light ,  I say ,  light ! 	give me some light ! 
farewell ,  for I must leave you . 	It’s time for me to say goodbye to you . 
It seems not meet ,  nor wholesome to my place ,  To be producted (as ,  if I stay ,  I shall) Against the Moor . 	It would be inappropriate—dangerous ,  even—for me to be seen working against the Moor ,  as I would if I stayed . 
In which regard , 	of patience . 
therefore be merry ,  Cassio ,  For thy solicitor shall rather die Than give thy cause away . 	I’m your advocate ,  and I’d rather die than give up on you . 
madam ,  here comes my lord . 	madam ,  here comes your husband . 
madam ,  I’ll take my leave . 	madam ,  I’d better leave now . 
why ,  stay and hear me speak . 	why not stay and hear me talk to him ? 
madam ,  not now . 	no ,  madam . 
I am very ill at ease ,  Unfit for mine own purposes . 	I’m very uncomfortable ,  and that won’t help my case . 
well ,  do your discretion . 	well ,  do whatever you think best . 
ha ! 	hey ! 
I like not that . 	I don’t like that . 
what dost thou say ? 	what did you say ? 
nothing ,  my lord ,  or if—I know not what . 	nothing ,  my lord ,  or if I did—I don’t know what . 
was not that Cassio parted from my wife ? 	wasn’t that Cassio leaving my wife ? 
cassio ,  my lord ? 	cassio ,  my lord ? 
I do believe ’twas he . 	I really think it was him . 
how now ,  my lord ? 	what’s this ,  my lord ? 
I have been talking with a suitor here ,  A man that languishes in your displeasure . 	I was talking to a petitioner here just now ,  someone who’s suffering from your anger . 
who is ’t you mean ? 	who do you mean ? 
why ,  your lieutenant ,  Cassio . 	your lieutenant ,  Cassio . 
good my lord ,  If I have any grace or power to move you His present reconciliation take . 	oh ,  if I’ve got any influence over you at all ,  please patch things up with him . 
I prithee ,  call him back . 	please call him and tell him to come back here . 
went he hence now ? 	was that him just now ? 
ay ,  sooth ,  so humbled That he hath left part of his grief with me To suffer with him . 	yes . 
good love ,  call him back . 	my love ,  call him back in here . 
not now ,  sweet Desdemona . 	not now ,  my sweet Desdemona . 
some other time . 	some other time . 
but shall ’t be shortly ? 	but will it be soon ? 
the sooner ,  sweet ,  for you . 	very soon ,  because you want it . 
shall ’t be tonight at supper ? 	will it be tonight at supper ? 
no ,  not tonight . 	no ,  not tonight . 
tomorrow dinner ,  then ? 	then tomorrow at dinner ? 
why ,  then ,  tomorrow night ,  or Tuesday morn . 	well then ,  tomorrow night ,  or Tuesday morning . 
on Tuesday noon ,  or night ,  or Wednesday morn . 	or Tuesday noon or at night ,  or Wednesday morning . 
I prithee name the time ,  but let it not Exceed three days . 	please just name a time ,  but don’t wait more than three days . 
In faith ,  he’s penitent ,  And yet his trespass ,  in our common reason (Save that ,  they say ,  the wars must make example Out of her best) is not ,  almost ,  a fault T' incur a private check . 	his mistake was hardly worth punishing him for in the first place—though in wartime it is sometimes necessary to make examples out of even the best soldiers . 
when shall he come ? 	so when should he come ? 
tell me ,  Othello . 	tell me ,  Othello . 
trust me ,  I could do much— Prithee ,  no more . 	I swear ,  I could do so much— Please ,  no more . 
let him come when he will ,  I will deny thee nothing . 	I won’t refuse you anything . 
why ,  this is not a boon ,  'Tis as I should entreat you wear your gloves ,  Or feed on nourishing dishes ,  or keep you warm ,  Or sue to you to do a peculiar profit To your own person . 	this is like if I asked you to wear your gloves when it’s cold outside ,  or eat nutritious food ,  or do something that’s good for you . 
nay ,  when I have a suit Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed It shall be full of poise and difficult weight And fearful to be granted . 	If I ever have to ask you for something that will put your luck to the test ,  it’ll be something difficult and terrible . 
I will deny thee nothing ! 	I won’t deny you anything ! 
whereon I do beseech thee ,  grant me this ,  To leave me but a little to myself . 	but in return ,  please ,  do one thing for me: leave me alone for a little while . 
shall I deny you ? 	would I ever deny you anything ? 
no . 	no . 
farewell ,  my lord . 	goodbye ,  my husband . 
farewell ,  my Desdemona . 	goodbye ,  my Desdemona . 
I’ll come to thee straight . 	I’ll come see you right away . 
perdition catch my soul But I do love thee ! 	god help me ,  I love you ! 
my noble lord— What dost thou say ,  Iago ? 	my noble lord— What is it ,  Iago ? 
did Michael Cassio ,  when you wooed my lady ,  Know of your love ? 	when you were wooing Desdemona ,  did Michael Cassio know about it ? 
he did ,  from first to last . 	yes ,  he knew about it the whole time . 
why dost thou ask ? 	why do you ask ? 
why of thy thought ,  Iago ? 	why are you curious ,  Iago ? 
I did not think he had been acquainted with her . 	I didn’t realize he knew her . 
Indeed ? 	oh ,  really ? 
Indeed ? 	oh ,  really ? 
ay ,  indeed ! 	yes ,  really . 
discern’st thou aught in that ? 	do you see something wrong with that ? 
Is he not honest ? 	Isn’t he an honest man ? 
honest ,  my lord ? 	honest ,  my lord ? 
honest ,  ay ,  honest . 	honest ,  yes ,  honest . 
my lord ,  for aught I know . 	as far as I know ,  sir . 
what dost thou think ? 	what are you thinking ? 
think ,  my lord ? 	thinking ,  my lord ? 
think ,  my lord ?  ”  Alas ,  thou echo’st me As if there were some monster in thy thought Too hideous to be shown . 	thinking ,  my lord ?  ”  My God ,  you keep repeating everything I say as if you were thinking something too horrible to say out loud . 
thou dost mean something . 	you’re thinking something . 
I heard thee say even now thou lik’st not that When Cassio left my wife . 	just a minute ago I heard you say you didn’t like it when Cassio left my wife . 
what didst not like ? 	what didn’t you like ? 
and when I told thee he was of my counsel Of my whole course of wooing ,  thou cried’st  “ Indeed ?  ”  And didst contract and purse thy brow together As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain Some horrible conceit . 	and when I told you he was involved the whole time I was trying to get Desdemona ,  you were like ,   “ Oh ,  really ?  ”  And then you frowned and wrinkled up your forehead as if you were imagining something horrible . 
If thou dost love me Show me thy thought . 	If you’re my friend ,  tell me what you’re thinking . 
my lord ,  you know I love you . 	my lord ,  you know I’m your friend . 
I think thou dost . 	I think you are . 
for Michael Cassio ,  I dare be sworn ,  I think ,  that he is honest . 	as for Michael Cassio ,  I think it would be safe for me to swear that he’s honest . 
I think so too . 	I think so too . 
men should be what they seem ,  Or those that be not ,  would they might seem none ! 	If they’re not honest ,  they shouldn’t look like they are ! 
certain ,  men should be what they seem . 	absolutely ,  people should be what they appear to be . 
why then I think Cassio’s an honest man . 	In that case ,  I think Cassio’s an honest man . 
nay ,  yet there’s more in this . 	no ,  I think there’s more to this than you’re letting on . 
I prithee speak to me as to thy thinkings ,  As thou dost ruminate ,  and give thy worst of thoughts The worst of words . 	please tell me what you’re thinking—even your worst suspicions . 
utter my thoughts ? 	you want me to say what I’m thinking ? 
thou dost conspire against thy friend ,  Iago ,  If thou but think’st him wronged and mak’st his ear A stranger to thy thoughts . 	you’re not being a good friend ,  Iago ,  if you even  Please don’t ask me to tell you . 
what dost thou mean ? 	what are you talking about ? 
good name in man and woman ,  dear my lord ,  Is the immediate jewel of their souls . 	a good reputation is the most valuable thing we have—men and women alike . 
who steals my purse steals trash . 	If you steal my money ,  you’re just stealing trash . 
tis something ,  nothing: 'Twas mine ,  ’tis his ,  and has been slave to thousands . 	It’s something ,  it’s nothing: it’s yours ,  it’s mine ,  and it’ll belong to thousands more . 
but he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him And makes me poor indeed . 	but if you steal my reputation ,  you’re robbing me of something that doesn’t make you richer ,  but makes me much poorer . 
I’ll know thy thoughts . 	I’m going to find out what you’re thinking . 
you cannot ,  if my heart were in your hand ,  Nor shall not ,  whilst ’tis in my custody . 	you can’t find that out ,  even if you held my heart in your hand you couldn’t make me tell you . 
ha ! 	what ? 
oh ,  beware ,  my lord ,  of jealousy ! 	beware of jealousy ,  my lord ! 
It is the green - eyed monster which doth mock The meat it feeds on . 	It’s a green - eyed monster that makes fun of the victims it devours . 
oh ,  misery ! 	oh ,  what misery ! 
poor and content is rich ,  and rich enough ,  But riches fineless is as poor as winter To him that ever fears he shall be poor . 	the person who’s poor and contented is rich enough . 
good heaven ,  the souls of all my tribe defend From jealousy ! 	god ,  help us not be jealous ! 
why ,  why is this ? 	why are you telling me this ? 
think’st thou I’d make a life of jealousy ,  To follow still the changes of the moon With fresh suspicions ? 	do you think I would live a life of jealousy ,  tormented by new suspicions every hour ? 
no ! 	no . 
to be once in doubt Is to be resolved . 	If there’s any doubt ,  there is no doubt . 
tis not to make me jealous To say my wife is fair ,  feeds well ,  loves company ,  Is free of speech ,  sings ,  plays ,  and dances . 	If you say my wife is beautiful ,  eats well ,  loves good company ,  speaks freely ,  sings ,  plays music ,  and dances well ,  you’re not making me jealous . 
where virtue is ,  these are more virtuous . 	when a woman is virtuous ,  talents like these just make her better . 
therefore ,  as I am bound ,  Receive it from me . 	so please listen to me . 
I speak not yet of proof . 	I’m not talking about proof yet . 
look to ’t . 	watch out ! 
I know our country disposition well . 	I know the people of Venice well . 
In Venice they do let God see the pranks They dare not show their husbands . 	they let God see things they wouldn’t show their husbands . 
dost thou say so ? 	do you really think so ? 
and so she did . 	that’s right ,  she did . 
why ,  go to then . 	well ,  there you go . 
she that ,  so young ,  could give out such a seeming ,  To seel her father’s eyes up close as oak ,  He thought ’twas witchcraft . 	she was so young ,  but she deceived her father so thoroughly he thought it was witchcraft ! 
but I am much to blame . 	but I’m sorry I’ve blurted all this out . 
I humbly do beseech you of your pardon For too much loving you . 	I beg your pardon for loving you too much . 
I am bound to thee forever . 	I’m indebted to you forever . 
I see this hath a little dashed your spirits . 	you seem a little depressed about this . 
not a jot ,  not a jot . 	not at all ,  not at all . 
trust me ,  I fear it has . 	really ,  I’m afraid you are . 
I hope you will consider what is spoke Comes from my love . 	I hope you remember that I said all this because I love you . 
but I do see you’re moved . 	but I see you’re troubled . 
I am to pray you not to strain my speech To grosser issues nor to larger reach Than to suspicion . 	please don’t take what I said more seriously than it deserves to be taken . 
I will not . 	I won’t . 
should you do so ,  my lord ,  My speech should fall into such vile success Which my thoughts aimed not at . 	If you take it too seriously ,  it’ll have bad effects that I didn’t want it to have . 
cassio’s my worthy friend— My lord ,  I see you’re moved . 	cassio’s a good friend of mine—My lord ,  I can see you’re upset . 
no ,  not much moved . 	no ,  not too upset . 
farewell ,  farewell . 	goodbye ,  goodbye . 
If more thou dost perceive ,  let me know more . 	If you see anything else ,  let me know . 
set on thy wife to observe . 	tell your wife to watch her . 
leave me ,  Iago . 	leave me alone now ,  Iago . 
my lord ,  I take my leave . 	my lord ,  I’ll say goodbye now . 
note if your lady strain his entertainment	and affection ,  even if it’s just an act . 
that you shall surely find him ,  Lead to the Sagittary the raisèd search ,  And there will I be with him . 	he and I will be there . 
It is too true an evil . 	It’s true . 
gone she is . 	she’s gone . 
and what’s to come of my despisèd time Is naught but bitterness . 	the rest of my life will be nothing but bitterness . 
now ,  Roderigo ,  Where didst thou see her ? —Oh ,  unhappy girl ! — With the Moor ,  say’st thou ? —Who would be a father ? — How didst thou know ’twas she ? —Oh ,  she deceives me Past thought ! —What said she to you ? —Get more tapers ,  Raise all my kindred . 	now ,  Roderigo ,  where did you see her ? —Oh ,  that miserable wretch ! —You say you saw her with the Moor ? —Oh ,  who would want to be a father ? —How did you know it was her ? —To think she tricked me so easily ! —What did she say to you ? —Get me more candles ,  and wake up all my relatives . 
are they married ,  think you ? 	do you think they’re married ? 
truly ,  I think they are . 	yes ,  I really think so . 
oh ,  heaven ,  how got she out ? 	oh ,  heaven ,  how did she get out ? 
oh ,  treason of the blood ! 	my own flesh and blood rebels against me ! 
fathers ,  from hence trust not your daughters' minds By what you see them act . 	fathers ,  never trust your daughters just because they act obedient and innocent . 
Is there not charms By which the property of youth and maidhood May be abused ? 	are there magic spells that can lead young virgins astray ? 
have you not read ,  Roderigo ,  Of some such thing ? 	have you ever heard of anything like that ,  Roderigo ? 
yes ,  sir ,  I have indeed . 	yes ,  sir ,  I have . 
I think I can discover him ,  if you please To get good guard and go along with me . 	I think I can find him . 
with any strong or vehement importunity . 	giving it back to him . 
much will be seen in that . 	that will tell you a lot . 
In the meantime ,  Let me be thought too busy in my fears— As worthy cause I have to fear I am— And hold her free ,  I do beseech your honor . 	but in the meantime ,  just assume that I’m paranoid—as I’m pretty sure I am—and keep thinking she’s innocent ,  please . 
fear not my government . 	don’t worry about how I handle it . 
I once more take my leave . 	I’ll say goodbye once more . 
this fellow’s of exceeding honesty And knows all quantities ,  with a learnèd spirit ,  Of human dealings . 	this Iago is extremely honest and good ,  and he knows a lot about human behavior . 
If I do prove her haggard ,  Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings ,  I’d whistle her off and let her down the wind To prey at fortune . 	If it turns out that she really is running around on me ,  I’ll send her away ,  even though it’ll break my heart . 
oh ,  curse of marriage That we can call these delicate creatures ours And not their appetites ! 	oh what a curse marriage is ! 
I had rather be a toad And live upon the vapor of a dungeon Than keep a corner in the thing I love For others' uses . 	I’d rather be a toad in a moldy basement than to have only a part of someone I love ,  sharing the rest of her with others . 
yet ’tis the plague to great ones ,  Prerogatived are they less than the base . 	this is the plague of important men—our wives betray us more than those of poor men . 
tis destiny unshunnable ,  like death . 	It’s our destiny ,  like death . 
even then this forkèd plague is fated to us When we do quicken . 	we are destined to be betrayed when we are born . 
look where she comes . 	oh ,  here she comes . 
If she be false ,  heaven mocked itself . 	If she’s cheated on me ,  then heaven itself is a fake . 
I’ll not believe ’t . 	I don’t believe it . 
how now ,  my dear Othello ? 	what’s going on ,  Othello ,  darling ? 
your dinner ,  and the generous islanders By you invited ,  do attend your presence . 	the nobles of Cyprus whom you invited to dinner are waiting for you . 
I am to blame . 	I’m sorry . 
why do you speak so faintly ? 	why are you whispering ? 
are you not well ? 	are you sick ? 
I have a pain upon my forehead ,  here . 	I have a  That’s from lack of sleep . 
why that’s with watching ,  ’twill away again . 	It’ll go away . 
let me but bind it hard ,  within this hour It will be well . 	let me wrap up your head ,  and it will feel okay in less than an hour . 
come ,  I’ll go in with you . 	come on ,  I’ll escort you to dinner . 
I am very sorry that you are not well . 	I’m very sorry you’re not feeling well . 
my wayward husband hath a hundred times	hundred times . 
wooed me to steal it ,  but she so loves the token (For he conjured her she should ever keep it) That she reserves it evermore about her To kiss and talk to . 	but she loves it so much (since Othello told her she should always keep it with her) that she always keeps it near her to kiss it and talk to it . 
I’ll have the work ta'en out And give ’t Iago . 	I’ll copy the embroidery pattern and then give it to Iago . 
what he will do with it Heaven knows ,  not I .  I nothing but to please his fantasy . 	heaven knows what he’s going to do with it . 
how now ! 	what’s going on ? 
what do you here alone ? 	what are you doing here alone ? 
do not you chide . 	don’t snap at me . 
I have a thing for you . 	I’ve got something for you . 
a thing for me ? 	you’ve got something for me ? 
It is a common thing— Ha ? 	It’s a common  What ? 
to have a foolish wife . 	to have a stupid wife . 
oh ,  is that all ? 	oh ,  is that so ? 
what will you give me now For the same handkerchief ? 	and what would you give me for the handkerchief ? 
what handkerchief ? 	what handkerchief ? 
what handkerchief ? 	what handkerchief ? 
why ,  that the Moor first gave to Desdemona ,  That which so often you did bid me steal . 	the one the Moor gave to Desdemona ,  which you asked me to steal so many times . 
hast stolen it from her ? 	you stole it from her ? 
no ,  but she let it drop by negligence And ,  to th' advantage ,  I being here ,  took ’t up . 	she dropped it carelessly ,  and ,  seizing the opportunity ,  since I was here ,  I picked it up . 
look ,  here it is . 	look ,  here it is . 
a good wench ,  give it me . 	good girl ,  give it to me . 
what will you do with ’t ,  that you have been so earnest To have me filch it ? 	and what are you going to do with it ? 
why ,  what is that to you ? 	what’s it to you ? 
If it be not for some purpose of import ,  Give ’t me again . 	If you don’t need it for some important reason ,  then give it back to me . 
poor lady ,  she’ll run mad When she shall lack it . 	poor lady ,  she’ll go crazy when she sees it’s missing . 
go ,  leave me . 	now go ,  leave me . 
the Moor already changes with my poison . 	the Moor’s mind has already become infected with my poisonous suggestions . 
look ,  where he comes . 	here he comes . 
not poppy nor mandragora Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world ,  Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owedst yesterday . 	no drugs or sleeping pills will ever give you the restful sleep that you had last night . 
false to me ? 	she’s cheating on me ? 
I swear ’tis better to be much abused Than but to know ’t a little . 	It is better to be tricked completely than to only suspect a little . 
how now ,  my lord ! 	what’s with you ,  my lord ? 
what sense had I in her stol'n hours of lust ? 	I had no idea she was cheating on me . 
I saw ’t not ,  thought it not ,  it harmed not me . 	I never saw it or suspected it ,  so it never hurt me . 
I slept the next night well ,  fed well ,  was free and merry . 	I slept well ,  ate well ,  and was happy . 
I found not Cassio’s kisses on her lips . 	I never saw Cassio’s kisses on her lips . 
he that is robbed ,  not wanting what is stol'n ,  Let him not know’t ,  and he’s not robbed at all . 	a man who’s robbed ,  but doesn’t miss what’s stolen ,  isn’t robbed at all . 
I am sorry to hear this . 	I’m sorry to hear this . 
I had been happy if the general camp ,  Pioneers and all ,  had tasted her sweet body ,  So I had nothing known . 	I would’ve been happy if the whole army had had sex with her ,  the lowest - ranking grunts and all ,  as long as I didn’t know anything about it . 
oh ,  now forever Farewell the tranquil mind ! 	oh ,  goodbye to my peace of mind ! 
farewell content ! 	goodbye to my happiness ! 
farewell the plumèd troops and the big wars That makes ambition virtue ! 	goodbye to the soldiers and to the wars that make men great ! 
oh ,  farewell ! 	goodbye ! 
farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump ,  The spirit - stirring drum ,  th' ear - piercing fife ,  The royal banner ,  and all quality ,  Pride ,  pomp ,  and circumstance of glorious war ! 	goodbye to the horses and the trumpets and the drums ,  the flute and the splendid banners ,  and all those proud displays and pageantry of war ! 
and O you mortal engines ,  whose rude throats The immortal Jove’s dead clamors counterfeit ,  Farewell ! 	and you deadly cannons that roar like thunderbolts thrown by the gods ,  goodbye ! 
othello’s occupation’s gone . 	othello’s career is over . 
Is ’t possible ,  my lord ? 	Is this possible ,  my lord ? 
Is ’t come to this ? 	has it come to this ? 
make me to see ’t ,  or at the least so prove it That the probation bear no hinge nor loop To hang a doubt on ,  or woe upon thy life ! 	show me ,  or at least prove it beyond the shadow of a doubt . 
oh ,  heaven forgive me ! 	oh ,  heaven help me ! 
are you a man ? 	aren’t you a rational human being ? 
have you a soul or sense ? 	don’t you have any sense at all ? 
god buy you ,  take mine office . 	goodbye . 
o monstrous world ! 	what a horrible world we live in ! 
take note ,  take note ,  O world ,  To be direct and honest is not safe . 	It’s not safe to be straightforward and honest . 
nay ,  stay . 	no ,  stop . 
thou shouldst be honest . 	you should always be honest . 
I should be wise ,  for honesty’s a fool And loses that it works for . 	I should always be wise . 
by the world ,  I think my wife be honest and think she is not . 	I swear ,  I think my wife’s faithful ,  and I think she’s not . 
I think that thou art just and think thou art not . 	I think you’re trustworthy one minute and then not the next . 
I’ll have some proof . 	I need proof ! 
her name ,  that was as fresh As Dian’s visage ,  is now begrimed and black As mine own face . 	her reputation was as pure as the snow ,  but now it’s as dirty and black as my own face . 
would I were satisfied ! 	as long as there are
I see ,  sir ,  you are eaten up with passion . 	I see you’re all eaten up with emotion . 
I do repent me that I put it to you . 	I’m sorry I said anything . 
you would be satisfied ? 	you want proof ? 
would ? 	want ? 
nay ,  and I will . 	yes ,  I want it ,  and I’ll get it . 
and may ,  but how ? 	but how ? 
how satisfied ,  my lord ? 	how will you get proof ? 
would you ,  the supervisor ,  grossly gape on ,  Behold her topped ? 	are you going to hide and watch them having sex ? 
death and damnation ! 	death and damnation ! 
oh ! 	oh ! 
It were a tedious difficulty ,  I think ,  To bring them to that prospect . 	I think it would be very hard to arrange for them to have sex while you watched . 
what shall I say ? 	what can I say ? 
where’s satisfaction ? 	what proof is there ? 
It is impossible you should see this ,  Were they as prime as goats ,  as hot as monkeys ,  As salt as wolves in pride ,  and fools as gross As ignorance made drunk . 	It’d be impossible for you to watch them ,  even if they were as horny as animals in heat and as stupid as drunks . 
but yet ,  I say ,  If imputation and strong circumstances Which lead directly to the door of truth Will give you satisfaction ,  you may have ’t . 	but if you would be willing to accept circumstantial evidence as proof ,  we can get that . 
give me a living reason she’s disloyal . 	give me one good reason to think she’s cheating on me . 
I do not like the office . 	I don’t like what you’re asking me to do . 
but ,  sith I am entered in this cause so far ,  Pricked to ’t by foolish honesty and love ,  I will go on . 	but since I’ve gotten myself involved this far ,  because I’m so stupidly honest and because I like you so much ,  I’ll keep going . 
I lay with Cassio lately And ,  being troubled with a raging tooth ,  I could not sleep . 	I recently shared a bed with Cassio ,  and I couldn’t sleep because of a raging toothache . 
monstrous ! 	monstrous ! 
nay ,  this was but his dream . 	no ,  it was just a dream . 
tis a shrewd doubt ,  though it be but a dream . 	It’s a reason for suspicion ,  even though it’s just a dream . 
and this may help to thicken other proofs That do demonstrate thinly . 	and it might back up other evidence that may seem too flimsy . 
I’ll tear her all to pieces ! 	I’ll tear her to pieces ! 
tell me but this ,  Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief Spotted with strawberries in your wife’s hand ? 	just tell me this: have you ever seen her holding a handkerchief with an embroidered strawberry pattern on it ? 
If it be that— If it be that ,  or any that was hers ,  It speaks against her with the other proofs . 	If it’s the same one— If it’s the same one ,  or any one that belongs to her ,  then together with the other evidence it’s pretty strong . 
oh ,  that the slave had forty thousand lives ! 	oh ,  I’d kill that bastard Cassio forty thousand times if I could ! 
one is too poor ,  too weak for my revenge . 	killing him once is not enough revenge . 
now do I see ’tis true . 	now I see it’s true . 
swell ,  bosom ,  with thy fraught ,  For ’tis of aspics' tongues ! 	my heart feels like it’s full of poisonous snakes ! 
patience ,  I say . 	be patient ,  I’m telling you . 
your mind may change . 	you may change your mind later . 
never ,  Iago . 	never ,  Iago . 
now ,  by yon marble heaven ,  In the due reverence of a sacred vow I here engage my words . 	I swear to God I’ll get revenge . 
do not rise yet . 	don’t get up yet . 
witness ,  you ever - burning lights above ,  You elements that clip us round about ,  Witness that here Iago doth give up The execution of his wit ,  hands ,  heart ,  To wronged Othello’s service . 	let heaven be my witness—I’m putting my mind ,  my heart ,  and my hands in Othello’s control . 
let him command ,  And to obey shall be in me remorse ,  What bloody business ever . 	let him command me ,  and I’ll do whatever he asks ,  no matter how violent . 
I greet thy love Not with vain thanks but with acceptance bounteous ,  And will upon the instant put thee to ’t . 	I accept your devotion with my deepest love . 
within these three days let me hear thee say That Cassio’s not alive . 	within the next three days I want to hear you tell me that Cassio’s dead . 
but let her live . 	but let her live . 
oh ,  damn her ,  damn her ! 	oh ,  damn her ,  damn her ! 
come ,  go with me apart . 	come away with me . 
I will withdraw To furnish me with some swift means of death For the fair devil . 	I’m going inside to think up some way to kill that beautiful devil . 
now art thou my lieutenant . 	you’re my lieutenant now . 
I am your own for ever . 	I’m yours forever . 
pray you lead on . 	lead the way . 
at every house I’ll call . 	I’ll stop at every house . 
I will deserve your pains . 	I’ll reward you for your troubles . 
why ,  man ? 	why do you say that ? 
go to . 	oh ,  come on . 
where lodges he ? 	where does he sleep ? 
to tell you where he lodges is to tell you where I lie . 	telling you where he’s sleeping is like telling you where I’m lying . 
can anything be made of this ? 	what on earth does that mean ? 
I know not where he lodges ,  and for me to devise a lodging and say he lies here ,  or he lies there ,  were to lie in mine own throat . 	I don’t know where he’s staying ,  so if I told you he’s sleeping here or there ,  I’d be lying . 
can you inquire him out and be edified by report ? 	can you ask around and find out ? 
seek him ,  bid him come hither . 	find him and tell him to come here . 
tell him I have moved my lord on his behalf ,  and hope all will be well . 	tell him I’ve spoken to my husband on his behalf ,  and I think everything will be all right . 
to do this is within the compass of man’s wit ,  and therefore I will attempt the doing it . 	I think I can do that . 
where should I lose that handkerchief ,  Emilia ? 	where could I have lost that handkerchief ,  Emilia ? 
I know not ,  madam . 	I don’t know ,  madam . 
believe me ,  I had rather have lost my purse Full of crusadoes . 	believe me ,  I’d rather have lost a purse full of gold coins . 
and but my noble Moor Is true of mind and made of no such baseness As jealous creatures are ,  it were enough To put him to ill thinking . 	this would be enough to make my husband suspect me ,  if he wasn’t so free of jealousy . 
Is he not jealous ? 	he’s not jealous ? 
who ,  he ? 	who ,  him ? 
I think the sun where he was born Drew all such humors from him . 	I think all tendencies to jealousy were burned out of him by the sun of his native land . 
look where he comes . 	look ,  here he comes . 
I will not leave him now till Cassio Be called to him . —How is ’t with you ,  my lord ? 	I won’t leave him alone until he gives Cassio his job back . —How are you ,  my lord ? 
hot ,  hot ,  and moist . 	hot ,  hot and moist . 
this hand of yours requires A sequester from liberty ,  fasting ,  and prayer , 	with a hand like this you need to
much castigation ,  exercise devout ,  For here’s a young and sweating devil here ,  That commonly rebels . 	fast and pray to stave off temptations . 
tis a good hand ,  A frank one . 	It’s a nice hand ,  an open one . 
the hearts of old gave hands ,  But our new heraldry is hands ,  not hearts . 	but these days ,  people give each other their hands without their hearts . 
I cannot speak of this . 	I don’t know about that . 
come now ,  your promise . 	now ,  don’t forget ,  you promised me something . 
what promise ,  chuck ? 	what did I promise ,  my dear ? 
I have sent to bid Cassio come speak with you . 	I sent for Cassio to come talk with you . 
I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me . 	I have a bad cold that’s bothering me . 
lend me thy handkerchief . 	lend me your handkerchief . 
here ,  my lord . 	here ,  my lord . 
that which I gave you . 	no ,  the one I gave you . 
I have it not about me . 	I don’t have it with me . 
not ? 	you don’t ? 
no ,  indeed ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
that’s a fault . 	that’s not good . 
the thoughts of people . 	almost read people’s thoughts . 
she told her ,  while she kept it 'Twould make her amiable and subdue my father Entirely to her love ,  but if she lost it Or made gift of it ,  my father’s eye Should hold her loathèd and his spirits should hunt After new fancies . 	she told my mother that as long as she kept it with her ,  my father would love and desire her . 
she ,  dying ,  gave it me And bid me ,  when my fate would have me wived ,  To give it her . 	when she was dying she gave it to me and told me to give it to my wife when I got married . 
I did so ,  and take heed on ’t ,  Make it a darling like your precious eye . 	I did . 
Is ’t possible ? 	Is that possible ? 
tis true . 	yes ,  it’s true . 
there’s magic in the web of it . 	there’s magic in its fabric . 
a sibyl ,  that had numbered in the world The sun to course two hundred compasses ,  In her prophetic fury sewed the work . 	a two - hundred - year - old witch sewed it while she was in a fevered trance . 
the worms were hallowed that did breed the silk ,  And it was dyed in mummy which the skillful Conserved of maidens' hearts . 	the silk came from sacred silkworms ,  and it was dyed with fluid made from embalmed virgins' hearts . 
Indeed ? 	really ? 
Is ’t true ? 	Is that true ? 
most veritable ,  therefore look to ’t well . 	It’s absolutely true ,  so take good care of it . 
then would to Heaven that I had never seen ’t ! 	I wish I had never seen it ! 
ha ! 	ha ! 
wherefore ? 	why ? 
why do you speak so startingly and rash ? 	why are you yelling at me so angrily ? 
Is ’t lost ? 	Is it lost ? 
Is ’t gone ? 	Is it gone ? 
speak ,  is ’t out o' th' way ? 	tell me ,  is it missing ? 
bless us ! 	god help me ! 
say you ? 	what do you have to say for yourself ? 
It is not lost ,  but what and if it were ? 	It’s not lost ,  but what if it were ? 
how ! 	what do you mean ? 
I say ,  it is not lost . 	I’m telling you ,  it’s not lost . 
pray you ,  let Cassio be received again . 	please hire Cassio again . 
fetch me the handkerchief—my mind misgives . 	bring me the handkerchief—My mind is full of doubt . 
come ,  come ,  You’ll never meet a more sufficient man . 	come on . 
the handkerchief ! 	the handkerchief ! 
away ! 	damn it ! 
Is not this man jealous ? 	and you say he’s not jealous ? 
I ne'er saw this before . 	I never saw him like this before . 
they are all but stomachs ,  and we all but food . 	they’re like stomachs and we’re just the food . 
to eat us hungerly ,  and when they are full ,  They belch us . 	they eat us up hungrily ,  and when they’re full ,  they vomit us up . 
look you ,  Cassio and my husband ! 	look ,  here comes Cassio and my husband . 
there is no other way . 	there’s no other way . 
tis she must do ’t ,  And ,  lo ,  the happiness ! 	she’s the one who’s got to do it . 
go and importune her . 	go ahead and ask her . 
so shall I clothe me in a forced content ,  And shut myself up in some other course ,  To fortune’s alms . 	then I could stop wondering ,  and find some other career . 
my lord is not my lord ,  nor should I know him Were he in favor as in humor altered . 	If his face changed as much as his personality has ,  I wouldn’t recognize him . 
so help me every spirit sanctified As I have spoken for you all my best And stood within the blank of his displeasure For my free speech . 	god knows I have done my best to argue for you ,  and made him angry at me for being so aggressive . 
you must awhile be patient . 	you’ll just have to be patient for a little while . 
what I can do I will ,  and more I will Than for myself I dare . 	I’ll do what I can ,  more than I’d do for myself . 
let that suffice you . 	let that be enough for you . 
Is my lord angry ? 	Is Othello angry ? 
can he be angry ? 	can he even get angry ? 
there’s matter in ’t indeed ,  if he be angry . 	If he’s angry ,  there must be something seriously wrong . 
I prithee ,  do so . 	please ,  do so . 
something ,  sure ,  of state ,  Either from Venice ,  or some unhatched practice Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him ,  Hath puddled his clear spirit ,  and in such cases Men’s natures wrangle with inferior things ,  Though great ones are their object . 	there must be some political news from Venice ,  or some dangerous plot here in Cyprus has ruined his good mood . 
tis even so ,  For let our finger ache and it endues Our other healthful members even to that sense Of pain . 	that’s the way it goes . 
nay ,  we must think men are not gods ,  Nor of them look for such observances As fit the bridal . 	we shouldn’t expect men to be perfect ,  or for them to be as polite as on the weddingday . 
pray heaven it be State matters ,  as you think ,  and no conception Nor no jealous toy concerning you . 	I hope to God it’s something political ,  like you think ,  and not jealousy involving you . 
alas the day ! 	oh no ! 
I never gave him cause . 	I never gave him reason to be jealous . 
but jealous souls will not be answered so . 	but jealous people don’t think like that . 
they are not ever jealous for the cause ,  But jealous for they’re jealous . 	they’re never jealous for a reason; they’re just jealous . 
It is a monster Begot upon itself ,  born on itself . 	It’s like a monster that just grows and grows ,  out of nothing . 
heaven keep the monster from Othello’s mind ! 	I hope God keeps that monster from growing in Othello’s mind ! 
lady ,  amen . 	amen to that ,  lady . 
I will go seek him . —Cassio ,  walk hereabout . 	I’ll go look for him—Cassio ,  stay around here . 
If I do find him fit ,  I’ll move your suit And seek to effect it to my uttermost . 	If he’s in a good mood I’ll mention you again ,  and do everything I can . 
I humbly thank your ladyship . 	I thank you ,  lady . 
save you ,  friend Cassio ! 	hello ,  Cassio ! 
what make you from home ? 	why are you so far from home ? 
how is ’t with you ,  my most fair Bianca ? 	how are you ,  my pretty Bianca ? 
Indeed ,  sweet love ,  I was coming to your house . 	to tell you the truth ,  I was just going to your house . 
and I was going to your lodging ,  Cassio . 	and I was just going to yours . 
what ,  keep a week away ? 	you’ve kept away from me for a week ? 
seven days and nights ? 	seven days and seven nights ? 
eight score eight hours ? 	a hundred and sixty - eight hours ? 
and lovers' absent hours More tedious than the dial eightscore times ! 	and lovers' hours are a hundred and sixty times longer than normal ones ! 
oh weary reckoning ! 	what a tedious wait ! 
o Cassio ,  whence came this ? 	oh ,  Cassio ,  where did you get this ? 
Is ’t come to this ? 	has it come to this ? 
well ,  well . 	well ,  well . 
go to ,  woman ,  Throw your vile guesses in the devil’s teeth From whence you have them . 	oh ,  come on ,  woman . 
why ,  whose is it ? 	well ,  whose is it ? 
I like the work well . 	It’s pretty . 
ere it be demanded ,  As like enough it will ,  I would have it copied . 	so I’d like it copied . 
take it and do ’t ,  and leave me for this time . 	take it and do that for me ,  and leave me alone for a while . 
leave you ! 	leave you alone ! 
wherefore ? 	why ? 
I do attend here on the general And think it no addition ,  nor my wish ,  To have him see me womaned . 	I’m waiting here for the general ,  and I don’t want him to see me with a woman . 
why ,  I pray you ? 	and why’s that ? 
not that I love you not . 	It’s not because I don’t love you . 
but that you do not love me . 	but you don’t love me . 
I pray you bring me on the way a little And say if I shall see you soon at night . 	please ,  just walk with me a little ways ,  and tell me if I’ll see you later tonight . 
tis but a little way that I can bring you ,  For I attend here . 	I can only walk a little way with you ,  since I’m waiting here . 
but I’ll see you soon . 	but I’ll see you soon . 
tis very good . 	all right ,  have it your way . 
I must be circumstanced . 	I have to make do . 
nine or ten times I had thought t' have yerked him here under the ribs . 	nine or ten times I wanted to stab him under the ribs . 
tis better as it is . 	It’s better that you didn’t kill him . 
nay ,  but he prated And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms Against your honor That ,  with the little godliness I have ,  I did full hard forbear him . 	but he kept chattering so foolishly ,  talking about you in such insulting and despicable terms ,  that it was hard for me to restrain myself . 
let him do his spite . 	but please tell me ,  sir ,  is your marriage  Let him do his worst . 
my services which I have done the signiory Shall out - tongue his complaints . 	the services I have done for the Venetian government will count for more than his complaints will . 
will you think so ? 	do you really think so ? 
think so ,  Iago ? 	what do you mean ,  do I think so ? 
what ,  To kiss in private ? 	what ,  just because they kissed in private ? 
an unauthorized kiss ! 	an illicit kiss ! 
or to be naked with her friend in bed An hour or more ,  not meaning any harm ? 	maybe she was just naked in bed with him for an hour or so ,  but they didn’t do anything . 
naked in bed ,  Iago ,  and not mean harm ! 	naked in bed together ,  but without doing anything ? 
It is hypocrisy against the devil . 	come on ,  Iago . 
so they do nothing ,  ’tis a venial slip . 	as long as they didn’t do anything ,  it would only be a minor sin . 
but if I give my wife a handkerchief— What then ? 	but if I gave my wife a handkerchief— Then what ? 
she is protectress of her honor too . 	her reputation is also her own . 
may she give that ? 	can she give that away too ? 
but for the handkerchief— By heaven ,  I would most gladly have forgot it . 	but a handkerchief— God ,  I wish I could forget about the handkerchief ! 
thou saidst—Oh ,  it comes o'er my memory ,  As doth the raven o'er the infectious house ,  Boding to all—he had my handkerchief . 	what you told me it haunts me like a nightmare—he’s got my handkerchief ! 
ay ,  what of that ? 	yes ,  what about it ? 
that’s not so good now . 	that’s not good . 
what if I had said I had seen him do you wrong ? 	what if I’d said I saw him do something to hurt you ? 
he hath ,  my lord ,  but be you well assured No more than he’ll unswear . 	yes ,  but he’d deny it all . 
what hath he said ? 	what did he say ? 
why ,  that he did—I know not what he did . 	he said he did—I don’t know . 
lie—   With her ? 	he was in bed with— With her ? 
with her ,  on her ,  what you will . 	with her ,  on top of her—however you want to say it . 
lie with her ? 	In bed with her ? 
lie on her ? 	on top of her ? 
lie with her—that’s fulsome . 	my God ,  it’s nauseating ! 
handkerchief—confessions—handkerchief ! 	handkerchief—confessions—handkerchief ! 
noses ,  ears ,  and lips . 	noses ,  ears ,  lips . 
Is ’t possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
confess ! —Handkerchief ! —Oh ,  devil ! — Work on ,  My medicine ,  work ! 	this is the way to trick gullible fools . 
how now ,  Cassio ! 	hey ,  Cassio ! 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
this is his second fit . 	this is his second fit like this . 
he had one yesterday . 	he had one yesterday . 
rub him about the temples . 	rub his temples . 
no ,  forbear . 	no ,  don’t . 
If not ,  he foams at mouth and by and by Breaks out to savage madness . 	If you interrupt it ,  he’ll foam at the mouth and go crazy . 
look ,  he stirs . 	look ,  he’s moving . 
do you withdraw yourself a little while , 	why don’t you go away for a bit ? 
when he is gone I would on great occasion speak with you . 	when he leaves ,  it’s very important that I talk to you . 
how is it ,  general ? 	what happened ,  general ? 
have you not hurt your head ? 	did you hit your head ? 
dost thou mock me ? 	are you making fun of me ? 
would you would bear your fortune like a man ! 	I wish you could face your bad news like a man ! 
a hornèd man’s a monster and a beast . 	he’s subhuman ,  like an animal . 
did he confess it ? 	did he confess ? 
good sir ,  be a man ,  Think every bearded fellow that’s but yoked May draw with you . 	sir ,  be a man . 
your case is better . 	your case is better than that . 
no ,  let me know ,  And knowing what I am ,  I know what she shall be . 	then I’ll know exactly what she is ,  just as I know what I am . 
oh ,  thou art wise ! 	you’re wise ! 
tis certain . 	that’s for sure . 
whilst you were here o'erwhelmèd with your grief— A passion most resulting such a man— Cassio came hither . 	while you were dazed by grief—which isn’t appropriate for a man like you—Cassio showed up here . 
I shifted him away And laid good ’scuses upon your ecstasy , 	I got him to leave ,  and made up an excuse for your trance . 
bade him anon return and here speak with me ,  The which he promised . 	I told him to come back and talk to me in a bit ,  and he promised he would . 
for I will make him tell the tale anew Where ,  how ,  how oft ,  how long ago ,  and when He hath ,  and is again to cope your wife . 	I’ll make him tell me the whole story again—where ,  how often ,  how long ago—and when he plans to sleep with your wife in the future . 
I say ,  but mark his gesture . 	I’m telling you ,  just watch his face . 
marry ,  patience ,  Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen ,  And nothing of a man . 	but stay calm ,  and don’t get carried away by rage ,  or I’ll think you’re not a man . 
dost thou hear ,  Iago ? 	do you hear what I’m saying ,  Iago ? 
will you withdraw ? 	will you go hide ? 
now will I question Cassio of Bianca ,  A huswife that by selling her desires Buys herself bread and clothes . 	now I’ll ask Cassio about Bianca ,  a prostitute who sells her body for food and clothes . 
It is a creature That dotes on Cassio ,  as ’tis the strumpet’s plague To beguile many and be beguiled by one . 	that’s the whore’s curse ,  to seduce many men ,  but to be seduced by one . 
he ,  when he hears of her ,  cannot refrain From the excess of laughter . 	whenever he talks about her he can’t stop laughing . 
as he shall smile ,  Othello shall go mad . 	and when he laughs ,  Othello will go crazy . 
and his unbookish jealousy must construe Poor Cassio’s smiles ,  gestures ,  and light behavior Quite in the wrong . —How do you now ,  lieutenant ? 	In his ignorant jealousy ,  he’ll totally misunderstand Cassio’s smiles ,  gestures ,  and jokes . —How are you ,  lieutenant ? 
alas ,  poor caitiff ! 	the poor thing ! 
look how he laughs already ! 	he’s laughing already ! 
I never knew woman love man so . 	I never knew a woman who loved a man so much . 
alas ,  poor rogue ,  I think indeed she loves me . 	the poor thing ,  I really think she loves me . 
now he denies it faintly ,  and laughs it out . 	now he denies it a bit ,  and tries to laugh it off . 
do you hear ,  Cassio ? 	have you heard this ,  Cassio ? 
now he importunes him To tell it o'er . 	he’s asking him to tell the story again . 
go to ,  well said ,  well said . 	go on ,  tell it . 
she gives it out that you shall marry her . 	she says you’re going to marry her . 
do you intend it ? 	are you ? 
ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
do you triumph ? 	do you think you’ve won ? 
I marry her ! 	me ,  marry her ? 
what ? 	that whore ? 
prithee bear some charity to my wit . 	please give me a little credit ! 
do not think it so unwholesome . 	I’m not that stupid . 
ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
so ,  so ,  so ,  so ! 	so ,  so ,  so ,  so ! 
prithee say true ! 	you’re kidding ! 
well . 	all right ,  then . 
she is persuaded I will marry her ,  out of her own love and flattery ,  not out of my promise . 	she thinks I’ll marry her because she loves me . 
Iago beckons me . 	Iago is gesturing for me to come closer . 
now he begins the story . 	now he’s telling the story . 
she was here even now . 	she was here just now . 
she haunts me in every place . 	she hangs around me all the time . 
I was the other day talking on the sea - bank with certain Venetians ,  and thither comes the bauble and ,  by this hand ,  she falls me thus about my neck— Crying  “ O dear Cassio !  ”  as it were . 	I was talking to some Venetians down by the shore ,  and the fool showed up . 
ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber . 	now he’s saying how she took him into our bedroom . 
look ,  where she comes . 	look out ,  here she comes . 
tis such another fitchew . 	damn you ! 
what did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now ? 	what did you mean by giving me this handkerchief ? 
I was a fine fool to take it . 	I was an idiot to take it ! 
I must take out the work ? 	you want me to copy the embroidery pattern ? 
a likely piece of work ,  that you should find it in your chamber ,  and not know who left it there ! 	that was a likely story ,  that you found it in your room and didn’t know who it belonged to . 
this is some minx’s token ,  and I must take out the work ? 	this is a love token from some other slut ,  and you want me to copy its pattern for you ? 
how now ,  my sweet Bianca ! 	what is it ,  my dear Bianca ? 
how now ,  how now ? 	what’s wrong ? 
by heaven ,  that should be my handkerchief ! 	my God ,  that’s my handkerchief ! 
If you’ll come to supper tonight ,  you may . 	If you want to come have dinner with me ,  you can . 
If you will not ,  come when you are next prepared for . 	If you don’t want to ,  then good riddance . 
after her ,  after her . 	go after her ,  go . 
I must ,  she’ll rail in the street else . 	actually ,  I should . 
will you sup there ? 	will you be having dinner with her tonight ? 
yes ,  I intend so . 	yes ,  I will . 
did you perceive how he laughed at his vice ? 	did you see how he laughed about sleeping with her ? 
o Iago ! 	oh Iago ! 
and did you see the handkerchief ? 	and did you see the handkerchief ? 
was that mine ? 	was it mine ? 
yours by this hand . 	It was yours ,  I swear . 
and to see how he prizes the foolish woman your wife ! 	and do you see how much your foolish wife means to him ? 
she gave it him ,  and he hath given it his whore . 	she gave it to him ,  and he gave it to his whore . 
I would have him nine years a - killing . 	I wish I could keep killing him for nine years straight . 
a fine woman ! 	oh ,  she’s a fine woman ! 
a fair woman ! 	a fair woman ! 
a sweet woman ! 	a sweet woman ! 
nay ,  you must forget that . 	no ,  you have to forget all that now . 
ay ,  let her rot and perish and be damned tonight ,  for she shall not live . 	yes ,  let her die and rot and go to hell tonight . 
oh ,  the world hath not a sweeter creature ,  she might lie by an emperor’s side and command him tasks . 	oh ,  the world never saw a sweeter creature . 
nay ,  that’s not your way . 	but that’s not how you’re going to be . 
so delicate with her needle ,  an admirable musician . 	she’s so good at sewing ,  and a wonderful musician . 
oh ,  she will sing the savageness out of a bear ! 	oh ,  she could sing a wild bear to sleep ! 
of so high and plenteous wit and invention ! 	oh ,  she’s so witty and creative ! 
she’s the worse for all this . 	all the worse that she stooped this low ,  then . 
oh ,  a thousand thousand times—and then of so gentle a condition ! 	oh ,  a thousand times worse ,  a thousand times—and what a sweet personality she has ! 
ay ,  too gentle . 	yes ,  a little too sweet . 
nay ,  that’s certain . 	yes ,  that’s for sure . 
o Iago ,  the pity of it ,  Iago ! 	oh ,  it’s dreadful ,  dreadful ,  Iago ! 
If you are so fond over her iniquity ,  give her patent to offend ,  for if it touch not you it comes near nobody . 	If you still feel so affectionate toward her ,  then why not give her permission to cheat on you ? 
I will chop her into messes ! 	I’ll chop her into pieces . 
oh ,  ’tis foul in her . 	oh ,  it’s horrible of her . 
that’s fouler . 	that’s worse . 
get me some poison ,  Iago ,  this night . 	get me some poison tonight ,  Iago . 
I’ll not expostulate with her ,  lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again—This night ,  Iago ! 	I won’t argue with her ,  so her beautiful body won’t disarm me . —Tonight ,  Iago . 
do it not with poison . 	don’t do it with poison . 
strangle her in her bed ,  even the bed she hath contaminated . 	strangle her in her bed ,  the same bed she’s contaminated . 
good ,  good ,  the justice of it pleases ! 	good ,  good ,  I like that—it’s only fair ! 
very good ! 	very good ! 
and for Cassio ,  let me be his undertaker . 	and let me kill Cassio . 
you shall hear more by midnight . 	you’ll hear more from me by midnight . 
excellent good . 	excellent ,  good . 
those are the raisèd father and his friends . 	that’s her father and his friends ,  who’ve been roused out of bed . 
you were best go in . 	you’d better go inside . 
not I ,  I must be found . 	no ,  I must let them find me . 
my parts ,  my title ,  and my perfect soul Shall manifest me rightly . 	my good qualities ,  my legal status as Desdemona’s husband ,  and my innocence will protect me . 
Is it they ? 	Is it them ? 
by Janus ,  I think no . 	I don’t think so . 
the servants of the Duke and my lieutenant ? 	the servants of the Duke and my lieutenant ? 
the goodness of the night upon you ,  friends ! 	hello ,  everyone ! 
what is the news ? 	what’s going on ? 
the Duke does greet you ,  general ,  And he requires your haste - post - haste appearance ,  Even on the instant . 	he needs to see you right away . 
what’s the matter ,  think you ? 	what do you think he wants ? 
something from Cyprus as I may divine . 	something about Cyprus . 
It is a business of some heat . 	I think it’s important . 
the galleys Have sent a dozen sequent messengers This very night at one another’s heels ,  And many of the consuls ,  raised and met ,  Are at the Duke’s already . 	the warships have sent a dozen messages tonight ,  one after the other ,  and many of the senators have been awakened and are at the Duke’s already . 
you have been hotly called for . 	they’re very anxious for you to get there . 
when being not at your lodging to be found The Senate hath sent about three several guests To search you out . 	when you weren’t at home ,  the Senate sent out three different search parties to find you . 
tis well I am found by you . 	It’s good you found me . 
I will but spend a word here in the house And go with you . 	I’ll just speak a word or two here in the house and then I’ll go with you . 
what trumpet is that same ? 	what’s that trumpet for ? 
I warrant something from Venice . 	I think someone’s coming from Venice . 
see ,  your wife’s with him . 	look ,  your wife is with him . 
save you ,  worthy general ! 	greetings ,  good general ! 
the duke and senators of Venice greet you . 	the duke and senators of Venice greet you . 
and what’s the news ,  good cousin Lodovico ? 	what’s new ,  cousin Lodovico ? 
I am very glad to see you ,  signior . 	very nice to see you ,  sir . 
welcome to Cyprus . 	welcome to Cyprus . 
I thank you . 	thank you . 
how does lieutenant Cassio ? 	how is lieutenant Cassio ? 
lives ,  sir . 	well ,  he’s alive . 
are you sure of that ? 	are you sure of that ? 
my lord ? 	excuse me ? 
he did not call ,  he’s busy in the paper . 	he didn’t say anything ,  he’s reading . 
Is there division ’twixt my lord and Cassio ? 	so there’s a rift between Othello and Cassio ? 
a most unhappy one . 	yes ,  unfortunately . 
I would do much T' atone them ,  for the love I bear to Cassio . 	I’d do anything to bring them back together ,  since I really care for Cassio . 
fire and brimstone ! 	damn it all ! 
my lord ? 	excuse me ,  my lord ? 
are you wise ? 	are you in your right mind ? 
what ,  is he angry ? 	Is he angry ? 
maybe the letter moved him ,  For ,  as I think ,  they do command him home ,  Deputing Cassio in his government . 	I think they want him to go home and appoint Cassio governor in his place . 
trust me ,  I am glad on ’t . 	I’m happy about that . 
Indeed ! 	oh ,  are you really ! 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
I am glad to see you mad . 	I’m glad you’re insane enough to admit it in front of me . 
why ,  sweet Othello—   I have not deserved this . 	why ,  sweet Othello—   I haven’t done anything to deserve this ! 
my lord ,  this would not be believed in Venice ,  Though I should swear I saw ’t . 	my lord ,  no one will believe this in Venice ,  even though I’d swear I saw it with my own eyes . 
tis very much . 	that was too much . 
make her amends ,  she weeps . 	she’s crying . 
oh ,  devil ,  devil ! 	oh ,  you devil ,  you devil ! 
out of my sight ! 	get out of my sight ! 
I will not stay to offend you . 	I wouldn’t want to stay here and make you angry . 
truly ,  an obedient lady . 	she’s obedient—a fine lady . 
I do beseech your lordship ,  call her back . 	please ,  my lord ,  call her back . 
mistress ! 	madam ! 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
what would you with her ,  sir ? 	what do you want with her ,  sir ? 
who ,  I ,  my lord ? 	who ,  me ? 
ay ,  you did wish that I would make her turn . 	see how well she can turn ? 
sir ,  she can turn ,  and turn ,  and yet go on ,  And turn again . 	she can turn and turn ,  and then turn on you again . 
and she can weep ,  sir ,  weep . 	and she can cry ,  sir—oh ,  how she can cry ! 
and she’s obedient ,  as you say ,  obedient ,  Very obedient . —Proceed you in your tears . — Concerning this ,  sir—Oh ,  well - painted passion ! — I am commanded home . —Get you away ,  I’ll send for you anon . —Sir ,  I obey the mandate And will return to Venice . —Hence ,  avaunt ! 	very obedient—keep crying . —Concerning this—oh ,  what fake emotion ! —I am being ordered home—Get away from me ,  I’ll send for you later . —Sir ,  I’ll obey the order and return to Venice . 
cassio shall have my place . 	cassio can have my job . 
and ,  sir ,  tonight I do entreat that we may sup together . 	and tonight ,  sir ,  I invite you have dinner with me . 
you are welcome ,  sir ,  to Cyprus . 	welcome to Cyprus . 
goats and monkeys ! 	horny animals ! 
Is this the noble Moor whom our full senate Call all in all sufficient ? 	Is this the same Moor whom the senate considers so capable ? 
he is much changed . 	he’s changed a great deal . 
are his wits safe ? 	Is he sane ? 
Is he not light of brain ? 	Is he losing his mind ? 
he’s that he is . 	he is what he is . 
I may not breathe my censure What he might be . 	I won’t say anything negative about what he might be . 
If what he might he is not ,  I would to heaven he were ! 	If he isn’t what he might be ,  then I wish to God he were ! 
strike his wife ? 	hitting his wife ? 
faith ,  that was not so well . 	It’s true ,  that wasn’t such a nice thing to do . 
yet would I knew That stroke would prove the worst ! 	but I wish I could say that’s the last time he’ll do it ! 
Is it his use ? 	Is it a habit of his ? 
or did the letters work upon his blood And new - create his fault ? 	or did the letter make him emotional somehow ,  and this is the first time he’s done it ? 
alas ,  alas ! 	oh ,  it’s too bad ! 
It is not honesty in me to speak What I have seen and known . 	It wouldn’t be right for me to tell you everything I’ve seen and heard . 
do but go after And mark how he continues . 	just go after him and watch what he does next . 
I am sorry that I am deceived in him . 	I’m sorry I was so wrong about him . 
you have seen nothing then ? 	you haven’t seen anything ,  then ? 
nor ever heard ,  nor ever did suspect . 	no ,  and I didn’t hear anything either ,  or suspect anything at all . 
yes ,  you have seen Cassio and she together . 	but you’ve seen her and Cassio together . 
but then I saw no harm ,  and then I heard Each syllable that breath made up between them . 	yes ,  but I didn’t see anything wrong ,  and I heard every syllable they said . 
what ,  did they never whisper ? 	didn’t they ever whisper ? 
never ,  my lord . 	never ,  my lord . 
nor send you out o' th' way ? 	or ask you to leave the room ? 
never . 	never . 
to fetch her fan ,  her gloves ,  her mask ,  nor nothing ? 	not even to get her fan ,  or her gloves ,  or her mask ,  or anything ? 
never ,  my lord . 	no ,  my lord . 
that’s strange . 	that’s strange . 
I durst ,  my lord ,  to wager she is honest ,  Lay down my soul at stake . 	I’d swear to you on my soul that she’s a good ,  honest person ,  sir . 
bid her come hither . 	tell her to come here . 
go . 	go . 
she says enough ,  yet she’s a simple bawd That cannot say as much . 	she says all the right things ,  but the dumbest brothel - keeper would tell the same story . 
and yet she’ll kneel and pray ,  I have seen her do ’t . 	I’ve seen her do it . 
my lord ,  what is your will ? 	my lord ,  what do you want ? 
pray ,  chuck ,  come hither . 	please ,  dear ,  come here . 
what is your pleasure ? 	what can I do for you ? 
let me see your eyes . 	let me see your eyes . 
look in my face . 	look at my face . 
what horrible fancy’s this ? 	what horrible thing are you imagining ? 
I understand a fury in your words ,  But not the words . 	I can tell you’re furious ,  but I don’t understand what you’re saying . 
therefore be double damned ,  Swear thou art honest ! 	go ahead ,  swear to that ,  so you’ll be damned to hell for lying . 
heaven doth truly know it . 	heaven knows I am . 
heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell . 	heaven knows you’re as unfaithful as hell . 
to whom ,  my lord ? 	unfaithful ,  my lord ? 
with whom ? 	with whom ? 
how am I false ? 	how am I unfaithful ? 
ah ,  Desdemona ,  away ,  away ,  away ! 	leave me alone ,  Desdemona ,  go away ! 
am I the motive of these tears ,  my lord ? 	because of me ? 
If haply you my father do suspect An instrument of this your calling back ,  Lay not your blame on me . 	If you’ve been ordered back to Venice because of my father ,  don’t blame me . 
If you have lost him ,  Why ,  I have lost him too . 	you may have lost his respect ,  but so have I . 
yet could I bear that too ,  well ,  very well . 	even that I could put up with . 
but there where I have garnered up my heart ,  Where either I must live or bear no life ,  The fountain from the which my current runs Or else dries up—to be discarded thence ! 	be like the fountain that my children and all my descendants flow from ,  has rejected me ! 
or keep it as a cistern for foul toads To knot and gender in ! 	worse than that ,  she’s polluted herself ,  so that the fountain is a place where disgusting toads copulate and reproduce ! 
turn thy complexion there ,  Patience ,  thou young and rose - lipped cherubin , — Ay ,  there ,  look grim as hell ! 	even the goddess of patience couldn’t look at this and be patient—it’s too horrifying ! 
I hope my noble lord esteems me honest . 	I hope you think I’m faithful to you . 
oh ,  ay ,  as summer flies are in the shambles ,  That quicken even with blowing . 	as faithful as flies in rotting meat ,  which give birth to maggots every time the wind blows . 
o thou weed ,  Who art so lovely fair and smell’st so sweet That the sense aches at thee ,  would thou hadst ne'er been born ! 	oh ,  I wish you’d never been born ! 
alas ,  what ignorant sin have I committed ? 	have I done something to offend you without knowing it ? 
was this fair paper ,  this most goodly book ,  Made to write  “ whore ”  upon ? 	was someone as beautiful as you meant to be a whore ? 
what committed ? 	what have you done ? 
committed ? 	what have you done ? 
o thou public commoner ! 	oh ,  you streetwalker ! 
what committed ? 	what have you done ? 
Impudent strumpet ! 	you brazen whore ! 
by heaven ,  you do me wrong ! 	I swear to God you’re accusing me wrongly ! 
are you not a strumpet ? 	so you’re saying you’re not a whore ? 
no ,  as I am a Christian . 	no ,  I’m as honest as I am Christian . 
what ,  not a whore ? 	what ,  you’re not a whore ? 
no ,  as I shall be saved . 	no ,  I swear it . 
Is ’t possible ? 	Is that possible ? 
oh ,  heaven forgive us ! 	oh ,  heaven help us ! 
I cry you mercy ,  then ,  I took you for that cunning whore of Venice That married with Othello . —You ,  mistress ,  That have the office opposite to Saint Peter And keep the gate of hell ! 	I mistook you for that sly Venetian woman who married Othello . —You whorehouse - keeper . 
you ,  you ,  ay ,  you ! 	you ! 
we have done our course . 	we’ve finished our business . 
there’s money for your pains . 	here’s some money for you . 
I pray you ,  turn the key and keep our counsel . 	please lock the door and keep quiet . 
alas ,  what does this gentleman conceive ? 	what’s he talking about ? 
how do you ,  madam ? 	how are you ,  madam ? 
ancient ,  what makes he here ? 	ensign ,  what’s he doing in there ? 
faith ,  he tonight hath boarded a land carrack . 	tonight he boarded a treasure ship . 
If it prove lawful prize ,  he’s made for ever . 	If he can keep it ,  he’ll be set forever . 
I do not understand . 	I don’t understand . 
he’s married . 	he’s married . 
to who ? 	to whom ? 
here comes another troop to seek for you . 	here comes another group looking for you . 
It is Brabantio . 	It’s Brabantio . 
general ,  be advised ,  He comes to bad intent . 	he intends to do something bad to you . 
holla ! 	hey ! 
stand there ! 	stop right there ! 
signior ,  it is the Moor . 	sir ,  it’s the Moor . 
down with him ,  thief ! 	get him ,  he’s a thief ! 
with who ? 	with who ? 
I have none . 	I don’t have a lord . 
do not talk to me ,  Emilia . 	don’t talk to me ,  Emilia . 
here’s a change indeed ! 	things have certainly changed ! 
tis meet I should be used so ,  very meet . 	It’s fair for him to treat me like this ,  very fair . 
how have I been behaved that he might stick The small’st opinion on my least misuse ? 	what have I ever done that he has anything to complain about ? 
what is your pleasure ,  madam ? 	what can I do for you ,  madam ? 
how is ’t with you ? 	how are you ? 
I cannot tell . 	I don’t know . 
those that do teach young babes Do it with gentle means and easy tasks . 	when grown - ups teach little children ,  they do it gently and easily . 
he might have chid me so ,  for ,  in good faith ,  I am a child to chiding . 	he might have treated me like that ,  because I’m as unused to abuse as a little child . 
what is the matter ,  lady ? 	what’s the matter ,  lady ? 
alas ,  Iago ,  my lord hath so bewhored her ,  Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her ,  That true hearts cannot bear it . 	he called her a whore so many times ,  and heaped up so much abuse on her that good people can’t stand to hear it . 
am I that name ,  Iago ? 	am I that name ,  Iago ? 
what name ,  fair lady ? 	what name ,  madam ? 
such as she says my lord did say I was . 	what my lord said I was . 
why did he so ? 	why did he do that ? 
I do not know . 	I don’t know . 
I am sure I am none such . 	I just know I’m not one . 
do not weep ,  do not weep . 	don’t cry ,  don’t cry . 
alas the day ! 	what a day this is ! 
hath she forsook so many noble matches ,  Her father and her country ,  and her friends ,  To be called  “ whore ”  ? 	did she give up all those chances to marry noblemen ,  give up her father and country and friends ,  just to be called a whore ? 
would it not make one weep ? 	doesn’t that make you want to cry ? 
It is my wretched fortune . 	It’s just my bad luck . 
beshrew him for ’t ! 	damn him ! 
how comes this trick upon him ? 	how did he get such an idea ? 
nay ,  heaven doth know . 	heaven knows . 
I will be hanged ,  if some eternal villain ,  Some busy and insinuating rogue ,  Some cogging ,  cozening slave ,  to get some office ,  Have not devised this slander . 	I bet my life some evil busybody ,  some meddling ,  lying jerk made up this rumor to get some position . 
I will be hanged else ! 	I bet my life on it . 
fie ,  there is no such man . 	nobody’s that bad . 
It is impossible . 	It’s impossible . 
If any such there be ,  heaven pardon him ! 	If there is ,  then heaven help him ! 
why should he call her  “ whore ”  ? 	why should he call her a whore ? 
who keeps her company ? 	who’s been with her ? 
the Moor’s abused by some most villainous knave ,  Some base notorious knave ,  some scurvy fellow . 	the Moor is being tricked by some crook ,  some terrible villain ,  some rotten bastard . 
o heavens ,  that such companions thou’dst unfold ,  And put in every honest hand a whip To lash the rascals naked through the world Even from the east to th' west ! 	oh ,  I wish we could unmask scoundrels like that ,  and give a whip to every good man to beat them senseless with ! 
speak within door . 	keep your voice down . 
oh ,  fie upon them ! 	oh ,  to hell with those people ! 
some such squire he was That turned your wit the seamy side without And made you to suspect me with the Moor . 	It’s the same kind of guy who got you upset and made you suspect I’d cheated on you with the Moor . 
you are a fool . 	you’re a fool . 
go to . 	shut up . 
alas Iago ,  What shall I do to win my lord again ? 	oh God ,  Iago ,  what can I do to win my husband back again ? 
good friend ,  go to him . 	please go to him ,  my friend . 
for ,  by this light of heaven ,  I know not how I lost him . 	I swear I have no idea why he stopped loving me . 
here I kneel: If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love ,  Either in discourse of thought or actual deed ,  Or that mine eyes ,  mine ears ,  or any sense ,  Delighted them ,  or any other form ,  Or that I do not yet ,  and ever did , 	here I’m kneeling to swear that if I ever did anything to destroy his love for me ,  either by thoughts or actions ,  or if I ever took pleasure in anyone else ,  or if I never did love him ,  or don’t love him now—even though he tries to shake me off—
and ever will—though he do shake me off To beggarly divorcement—love him dearly ,  Comfort forswear me ! 	then I hope I have a life of misery ! 
unkindness may do much ,  And his unkindness may defeat my life ,  But never taint my love . 	unkindness is powerful ,  and his unkindness may kill me ,  but it’ll never destroy my love . 
I cannot say  “ whore ,  ”  It does abhor me now I speak the word . 	I can’t say  “ whore .  ”  It makes me sick to say the word even now . 
the business of the state does him offence ,  And he does chide with you . 	political business is bothering him ,  and he’s just taking it out on you . 
If ’twere no other— 'Tis but so ,  I warrant . 	If only that were all it is— It is ,  I promise . 
hark ,  how these instruments summon to supper . 	those trumpets are calling us in to dinner . 
the messengers of Venice stays the meat . 	the Venetians are waiting for their food . 
go in ,  and weep not . 	go in ,  and don’t cry . 
all things shall be well . 	everything will be all right . 
how now ,  Roderigo ! 	how are you ,  Roderigo ? 
I do not find that thou deal’st justly with me . 	I don’t think you’re treating me fairly . 
what in the contrary ? 	what makes you say that ? 
I will indeed no longer endure it ,  nor am I yet persuaded to put up in peace what already I have foolishly suffered . 	well ,  I won’t take it any longer . 
will you hear me ,  Roderigo ? 	will you listen to me ,  Roderigo ? 
I have heard too much ,  and your words and performances are no kin together . 	your words and actions don’t match up . 
you charge me most unjustly . 	that’s not fair . 
with naught but truth . 	It’s the truth . 
the jewels you have had from me to deliver Desdemona would half have corrupted a votaress . 	the jewels you took from me to deliver to Desdemona would’ve made even a nun want to sleep with me . 
you have told me she hath received them and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden respect and acquaintance ,  but I find none . 	you told me she got them ,  and that she promised to give me a little something in return soon ,  but nothing like that ever happens . 
well ,  go to . 	well ,  all right then . 
very well . 	fine . 
very well ,  ”   “ go to ”  ! 	fine !  ”  he says . 
I cannot go to ,  man ,  nor ’tis not very well . 	all right !  ”  It’s not fine ,  and I’m not all right ! 
nay ,  I think it is scurvy ,  and begin to find myself fopped in it . 	It’s wrong ,  and I’m starting to realize I’m being cheated ! 
very well . 	okay . 
I tell you ’tis not very well . 	It’s not okay ! 
I will make myself known to Desdemona . 	I’m going to tell Desdemona my feelings . 
If she will return me my jewels I will give over my suit and repent my unlawful solicitation . 	If she returns my jewels ,  I’ll stop pursuing her and apologize to her . 
If not ,  assure yourself I will seek satisfaction of you . 	If not ,  I’ll challenge you to a duel . 
you have said now . 	you’ve said what you have to say now . 
ay ,  and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing . 	yes ,  and I’ll do everything I just said . 
why ,  now I see there’s mettle in thee ,  and even from this instant to build on thee a better opinion than ever before . 	from this moment on I have a higher opinion of you than before . 
give me thy hand ,  Roderigo . 	give me your hand ,  Roderigo . 
thou hast taken against me a most just exception ,  but yet I protest I have dealt most directly in thy affair . 	your complaint against me is perfectly understandable ,  but I still insist I’ve done everything I could to help you . 
It hath not appeared . 	It doesn’t look that way to me . 
I grant indeed it hath not appeared ,  and your suspicion is not without wit and judgment . 	I admit it doesn’t look that way to me ,  and the fact that you suspect me shows that you’re smart . 
but ,  Roderigo ,  if thou hast that in thee indeed ,  which I have greater reason to believe now than ever—I mean purpose ,  courage and valor—this night show it . 	but Roderigo ,  if you’re as courageous and determined as I think you are ,  then wait just a bit longer . 
If thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona ,  take me from this world with treachery and devise engines for my life . 	If you’re not having sex with Desdemona tomorrow night ,  then I suggest you find some way to stab me in the back and kill me . 
well ,  what is it ? 	well ,  what’s your plan ? 
Is it within reason and compass ? 	Is it feasible ? 
sir ,  there is especial commission come from Venice to depute Cassio in Othello’s place . 	venice has made Cassio governor here on Cyprus . 
Is that true ? 	Is that true ? 
why ,  then Othello and Desdemona return again to Venice . 	then Desdemona and Othello will go back to Venice . 
how do you mean ,  removing of him ? 	what do you mean ,  get rid of him ? 
why ,  by making him uncapable of Othello’s place: knocking out his brains . 	I mean knock his brains out ,  so he can’t take Othello’s place . 
and that you would have me to do ! 	and that’s what you want me to do ! 
ay ,  if you dare do yourself a profit and a right . 	yes ,  if you want to help yourself . 
he sups tonight with a harlotry ,  and thither will I go to him . 	he’s having dinner tonight with a prostitute ,  and I’ll go visit him . 
he knows not yet of his honorable fortune . 	he doesn’t know he’s been appointed governor yet . 
If you will watch his going thence (which I will fashion to fall out between twelve and one) you may take him at your pleasure . 	when you see him walking by here (as I’ll make sure he does between twelve and one) you can nab him . 
I will be near to second your attempt ,  and he shall fall between us . 	I’ll be nearby to help you ,  and between the two of us we can handle him . 
I will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put it on him . 	I’ll give you such reasons for killing him that you’ll feel obliged to snuff him out . 
It is now high suppertime ,  and the night grows to waste . 	It’s nearly dinner time ,  and the night’s going to be wasted . 
about it ! 	let’s go ! 
I will hear further reason for this . 	I want to hear more about this . 
and you shall be satisfied . 	you will . 
I do beseech you ,  sir ,  trouble yourself no further . 	please ,  sir ,  don’t trouble yourself . 
madam ,  good night . 	good night ,  madam . 
I humbly thank your ladyship . 	thank you . 
your honor is most welcome . 	you’re most welcome . 
will you walk ,  sir ? —O Desdemona— My lord ? 	would you walk out with me ,  sir ? —Oh ,  Desdemona— Yes ,  my lord ? 
get you to bed on th' instant ,  I will be returned Forthwith . 	go to bed right this minute . 
dismiss your attendant there ,  look ’t be done . 	I’ll be there shortly . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will ,  my lord . 
how goes it now ? 	how are things now ? 
he looks gentler than he did . 	he looks calmer than he did before . 
dismiss me ? 	send me away ? 
It was his bidding . 	that’s what he said . 
therefore ,  good Emilia ,  Give me my nightly wearing ,  and adieu . 	so give me my nightgown ,  Emilia ,  and I’ll say goodnight . 
we must not now displease him . 	we shouldn’t displease him . 
ay . 	yes . 
would you had never seen him ! 	I wish you’d never met him . 
so would not I . 	that’s not what I wish . 
my love doth so approve him That even his stubbornness ,  his checks ,  his frowns— Prithee ,  unpin me—have grace and favor . 	I love him even when he’s harsh and mean—Help me unpin this ,  would you ? —I love even his stubbornness ,  his frowns ,  his bad moods . 
I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed . 	I put those wedding sheets on your bed ,  as you asked . 
all’s one . 	It doesn’t matter . 
good Father ,  how foolish are our minds ! 	oh ,  how silly we are ! 
If I do die before thee ,  prithee ,  shroud me In one of these same sheets . 	If I die before you do make sure I’m wrapped in those sheets in my coffin . 
come ,  come ! 	listen to you ! 
you talk ! 	don’t be silly ! 
she had a song of  “ Willow ,  ”  An old thing ’twas ,  but it expressed her fortune And she died singing it . 	she knew an old song called  “ Willow ”  that reminded her of her own story ,  and she died singing it . 
that song tonight Will not go from my mind . 	I can’t get that song out of my head tonight . 
I have much to do But to go hang my head all at one side And sing it like poor Barbary . 	It’s all I can do to keep myself from hanging my head down in despair and singing it like poor Barbary . 
prithee ,  dispatch . 	please ,  hurry up . 
shall I go fetch your nightgown ? 	should I get your nightgown ? 
no ,  unpin me here . 	no ,  just help me unpin this . 
this Lodovico is a proper man . 	that Lodovico is a good - looking man . 
a very handsome man . 	he’s very handsome . 
he speaks well . 	he speaks well . 
I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot to Palestine for a touch of his nether lip . 	I know a lady in Venice who’d walk all the way to Palestine for a kiss from him . 
It’s the wind . 	It’s the wind . 
mine eyes do itch ,  Doth that bode weeping ? 	my eyes itch—is that an omen I’ll be crying soon ? 
tis neither here nor there . 	no ,  it doesn’t mean anything . 
I have heard it said so . 	I heard someone say that’s what it means . 
oh ,  these men ,  these men ! 	oh ,  these men ,  these men ! 
dost thou in conscience think—tell me ,  Emilia— That there be women do abuse their husbands In such gross kind ? 	do you honestly think—tell me ,  Emilia—there are women who’d cheat on their husbands in such a disgusting manner ? 
there be some such ,  no question . 	there are women like that out there ,  no question . 
you ,  Roderigo ! 	you ,  Roderigo ! 
come ,  sir ,  I am for you . 	come on ,  I’ll fight you . 
good signior ,  you shall more command with years Than with your weapons . 	sir ,  your age and status inspire more respect than your weapons do . 
o thou foul thief ,  where hast thou stowed my daughter ? 	you evil thief ,  where have you hidden my daughter ? 
damned as thou art ,  thou hast enchanted her ! 	you devil ,  you’ve put a spell on her ! 
judge me the world if ’tis not gross in sense That thou hast practiced on her with foul charms ,  Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals That weakens motion . 	It’s obvious to everyone that you’ve tricked her ,  drugged her ,  or kidnapped her . 
If he do resist ,  Subdue him at his peril ! 	If he struggles ,  use force ! 
whither will you that I go To answer this your charge ? 	where do you want me to go to respond to these charges ? 
wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ? 	would you ever do such a thing for all the world ? 
why ,  would not you ? 	why ,  wouldn’t you ? 
no ,  by this heavenly light ! 	by the light of heaven ,  no ,  I would not ! 
nor I neither ,  by this heavenly light . 	I wouldn’t either ,  by daylight . 
I might do ’t as well i' th' dark . 	It would be easier to do it in the dark . 
wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ? 	could you really do such a thing ,  for all the world ? 
the world’s a huge thing . 	the world’s huge . 
It is a great price for a small vice . 	It’s a big prize for such a small sin . 
In troth ,  I think thou wouldst not . 	I don’t think you would . 
In troth ,  I think I should ,  and undo ’t when I had done . 	actually I think I would ,  and then I’d undo it after I did it . 
marry ,  I would not do such a thing for a joint - ring ,  nor for measures of lawn ,  nor for gowns ,  petticoats ,  nor caps ,  nor any petty exhibition . 	I wouldn’t do it for a nice ring ,  or fine linen ,  or pretty gowns or petticoats or hats . 
but for the whole world ? 	but for the whole world ? 
why ,  who would not make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch ? 	who wouldn’t cheat on her husband to make him king ? 
I should venture purgatory for ’t . 	I’d risk my soul for that . 
beshrew me ,  if I would do such a wrong For the whole world . 	I’d never do such a bad thing ,  not for the whole world ! 
why the wrong is but a wrong i' th' world ,  and having the world for your labor ,  ’tis a wrong in your own world ,  and you might quickly make it right . 	why ,  a bad action is just a wrong in this world ,  but when you’ve won the whole world ,  it’s a wrong in your own world ,  so you can make it right then . 
I do not think there is any such woman . 	I don’t think any woman like that exists . 
yes ,  a dozen ,  and as many to th' vantage as would store the world they played for . 	yes ,  a dozen of them—as many as there are women in the world ,  in fact . 
but I do think it is their husbands' faults If wives do fall . 	but I do think it’s the husband’s fault if we wives cheat on them . 
say that they slack their duties	for instance ,  our husbands
why ,  we have galls ,  and though we have some grace ,  Yet have we some revenge . 	we have feelings . 
let husbands know Their wives have sense like them . 	husbands need to know that their wives are human beings too . 
they see and smell And have their palates both for sweet and sour ,  As husbands have . 	they see ,  smell ,  and taste sweet and sour just like their husbands . 
I think it is . 	I think they do . 
and doth affection breed it ? 	Is it out of lust ? 
I think it doth . 	I think so . 
Is ’t frailty that thus errs ? 	Is it a weakness ? 
It is so too . 	It is . 
and have not we affections ,  Desires for sport ,  and frailty ,  as men have ? 	and don’t we have passions ,  and a taste for fun ,  and weaknesses ,  just like men ? 
then let them use us well ,  else let them know ,  The ills we do ,  their ills instruct us so . 	then tell them to treat us well . 
good night ,  good night . 	good night ,  good night . 
heaven me such uses send ,  Not to pick bad from bad ,  but by bad mend ! 	I pray that God will let me learn from women like that—not to follow their bad example ,  but to avoid it ! 
here ,  stand behind this bulk ,  straight will he come . 	here ,  stand behind this wall; he’ll come right away . 
quick ,  quick ! 	quick ,  quick . 
fear nothing . 	don’t be afraid . 
I’ll be at thy elbow . 	I’ll be right next to you . 
It makes us ,  or it mars us . 	this will either make us or break us . 
here ,  at thy hand . 	I’m right behind you . 
be bold ,  and take thy stand . 	be bold ,  and get ready . 
I have no great devotion to the deed And yet he hath given me satisfying reasons . 	I don’t really want to do this ,  but he’s given me good reasons . 
tis but a man gone . 	I guess it’s only one man—no big deal . 
I know his gait ,  ’tis he . —Villain ,  thou diest ! 	I know the sound of his walk . —Die ,  villain ! 
oh ,  I am slain ! 	oh ,  I’m dead ! 
I am maimed for ever . 	I’ll be crippled forever ! 
help ,  ho ! 	help ! 
murder ! 	murder ! 
murder ! 	murder ! 
the voice of Cassio . 	that’s Cassio’s voice . 
Iago keeps his word . 	Iago has kept his word . 
oh ,  villain that I am ! 	oh ,  what a villain I am ! 
It is even so . 	that’s the truth . 
oh ,  help ,  ho ! 	help me ! 
light ! 	get some light ! 
a surgeon ! 	get me a surgeon ! 
tis he . 	It’s him ! 
oh ,  brave Iago ,  honest and just ,  That hast such noble sense of thy friend’s wrong ! 	brave Iago ,  how honest and trustworthy you are ! 
thou teachest me . 	you teach me how I should act . 
minion ,  your dear lies dead ,  And your unblest fate hies . 	whore ,  your lover’s dead now ,  and you’ll be going to hell soon . 
strumpet ,  I come . 	I’m coming ,  slut ! 
for ,  of my heart ,  those charms ,  thine eyes ,  are blotted . 	I’ve shut the memory of your beautiful eyes out of my heart . 
thy bed ,  lust - stained ,  shall with lust’s blood be spotted . 	you’ve already stained our sheets with your lust; now I’ll stain them with your whore’s blood . 
what ,  ho ! 	help ! 
no watch ? 	Isn’t there a guard around ? 
no passage ? 	no one passing by ? 
murder ! 	murder ! 
murder ! 	murder ! 
tis some mischance ,  the cry is very direful . 	something’s wrong ,  the man sounds panicked . 
oh ,  help ! 	oh ,  help ! 
hark ! 	listen ! 
oh ,  wretched villain ! 	I’ve acted like such a villain ! 
two or three groan . 	two or three men are groaning . 
tis heavy night ,  These may be counterfeits . 	but it’s dark out ,  and it could be a trap . 
let’s think ’t unsafe To come in to the cry without more help . 	It’s not safe to go near them till we get more help . 
nobody come ? 	nobody’s coming ? 
then shall I bleed to death . 	I’ll bleed to death . 
hark ! 	look ! 
here’s one comes in his shirt ,  with light and weapons . 	here’s someone coming in his pajamas ,  with a candle and weapons . 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
whose noise is this that ones on murder ? 	who’s shouting  “ murder ”  ? 
we do not know . 	we don’t know . 
do not you hear a cry ? 	didn’t you hear someone shouting ? 
here ,  here ! 	I’m here ,  here ! 
for heaven’s sake ,  help me ! 	for heaven’s sake ,  help me ! 
the same indeed ,  a very valiant fellow . 	he’s a good man . 
Iago ? 	Is that you ,  Iago ? 
oh ,  I am spoiled ,  undone by villains ! 	I’m here ,  I’ve been destroyed by villains ! 
give me some help . 	help me . 
oh ,  me ,  lieutenant ! 	oh ,  lieutenant ! 
what villains have done this ? 	what villains did this to you ? 
I think that one of them is hereabout ,  And cannot make away . 	I think one of them is nearby and can’t get away . 
that’s one of them . 	that’s one of them . 
o damned Iago ! 	damned Iago ! 
o inhuman dog ! 	you inhuman dog ! 
kill men i' th' dark ! 	killing men in the dark ? 
where be these bloody thieves ? 	where are these murderers ? 
are you of good or evil ? 	are you good or evil ? 
as you shall prove us ,  praise us . 	judge for yourself . 
signior Lodovico ? 	signor Lodovico ? 
he ,  sir . 	that’s me . 
I cry you mercy . 	I beg your pardon . 
here’s Cassio hurt by villains . 	cassio’s been wounded . 
cassio ! 	cassio ! 
how is ’t ,  brother ! 	how are you doing ,  brother ? 
my leg is cut in two . 	my leg’s been cut in two . 
marry ,  heaven forbid ! 	god forbid ! 
light ,  gentlemen ,  I’ll bind it with my shirt . 	bring me some light ,  gentlemen ,  I’ll bind the wound with my shirt . 
what is the matter ,  ho ? 	what’s the matter ? 
who is ’t that cried ? 	who’s shouting ? 
who is ’t that cried ? 	who’s shouting ? 
oh ,  my dear Cassio ! 	oh ,  my dear Cassio ! 
my sweet Cassio ! 	my sweet Cassio ! 
o Cassio ,  Cassio ,  Cassio ! 	oh ,  Cassio ,  Cassio ,  Cassio ! 
o notable strumpet ! 	you notorious whore ! 
cassio ,  may you suspect Who they should be that have thus mangled you ? 	cassio ,  do you know who might have stabbed you like this ? 
no . 	no . 
I am sorry to find you thus . 	I’m sorry to find you like this . 
I have been to seek you . 	I’ve been looking all over for you . 
alas ,  he faints ! 	he’s fainted ! 
o Cassio ,  Cassio ,  Cassio ! 	oh Cassio ,  Cassio ,  Cassio ! 
gentlemen all ,  I do suspect this trash To be a party in this injury . — Patience awhile ,  good Cassio . —Come ,  come ,  Lend me a light . 	sir ,  I believe this piece of trash ,  Bianca ,  has something to do with all this trouble . —Hang in there ,  Cassio . —Come here ,  bring the light . 
know we this face or no ? 	do you recognize this face ? 
even he ,  sir . 	that’s the one ,  sir . 
did you know him ? 	do you know him ? 
know him ? 	know him ? 
ay . 	yes . 
I am glad to see you . 	I’m glad to see you . 
how do you ,  Cassio ? —Oh ,  a chair ,  a chair ! 	how are you doing ,  Cassio ? —Someone bring me a stretcher ! 
roderigo ! 	roderigo ! 
he ,  he ,  ’tis he . 	It’s him ,  it’s him . 
oh ,  that’s well said—the chair ! 	good—here’s the stretcher . 
some good man bear him carefully from hence . 	get somebody strong to carry him out of here . 
I’ll fetch the general’s surgeon . — Save you your labor . —He that lies slain here ,  Cassio ,  Was my dear friend . 	I’ll get the general’s surgeon . 
what malice was between you ? 	there wasn’t any problem . 
none in the world ,  nor do I know the man . 	I don’t even know him . 
I pray you ,  look upon her . 	keep an eye on her . 
do you see ,  gentlemen ? 	do you see ? 
nay ,  guiltiness Will speak ,  though tongues were out of use . 	the guilty speak volumes even when they’re silent . 
alas ,  what is the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
what is the matter ,  husband ? 	what’s the matter ,  husband ? 
cassio hath here been set on in the dark By Roderigo and fellows that are ’scaped . 	cassio was attacked here in the dark by Roderigo and men who escaped . 
he’s almost slain ,  and Roderigo dead . 	he’s near death ,  and Roderigo’s dead already . 
alas ,  good gentleman ! 	oh ,  no ,  good gentleman ! 
alas ,  good Cassio ! 	oh no ,  good Cassio ! 
this is the fruits of whoring . 	this is what happens when you visit whores . 
prithee ,  Emilia ,  Go know of Cassio where he supped tonight . —	please ,  Emilia ,  ask Cassio where he was at dinner tonight . —
he supped at my house ,  but I therefore shake not . 	he ate at my house ,  but that doesn’t make me nervous . 
oh ,  did he so ? 	oh ,  did he ? 
I charge you ,  go with me . 	I order you to come with me . 
oh ,  fie upon thee ,  strumpet ! 	go to hell ,  you whore ! 
as I ! 	as moral as me ! 
fie upon thee ! 	damn you ! 
kind gentlemen ,  let’s go see poor Cassio dressed . — Come ,  mistress ,  you must tell ’s another tale . 	gentlemen ,  let’s go make sure Cassio’s wounds are properly dressed . —Come on ,  ma'am ,  you can tell us another story . 
emilia ,  run you to the citadel And tell my lord and lady what hath happed . — Will you go on afore ? 	emilia ,  go to the castle and tell Othello and Desdemona what happened . —Will you please go now ? 
this is the night That either makes me or fordoes me quite . 	to prison ,  until you’re called into court . 
how may the Duke be therewith satisfied ,  Whose messengers are here about my side Upon some present business of the state To bring me to him ? 	his messengers are waiting here to take me to him immediately ,  on pressing state business . 
tis true ,  most worthy signior . 	It’s true . 
the Duke’s in council and your noble self ,  I am sure ,  is sent for . 	the Duke’s in a meeting right now ,  and he’s sent for you too . 
the Duke in council ? 	the Duke’s in a meeting ? 
In this time of the night ? 	at this time of night ? 
bring him away . 	bring him with us . 
mine’s not an idle cause . 	the law’s on my side . 
the Duke himself ,  Or any of my brothers of the state ,  Cannot but feel this wrong as ’twere their own . 	the Duke and any of my fellow senators will take this wrong as seriously as if it were their own . 
for if such actions may have passage free ,  Bond - slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be . 	If we let crimes like this happen ,  slaves and heathens will be our rulers . 
let me not name it to you ,  you chaste stars ,  It is the cause . 	I have to do it ,  I have to do it . 
yet I’ll not shed her blood ,  Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow And smooth as monumental alabaster . 	but I won’t shed any of her blood or scar that beautiful skin ,  whiter than snow and smooth as the finest marble . 
yet she must die ,  else she’ll betray more men . 	but she’s got to die ,  or she’ll cheat on other men . 
put out the light ,  and then put out the light . 	put out the light of the candle ,  and then put out the light of her heart . 
If I quench thee ,  thou flaming minister ,  I can again thy former light restore Should I repent me . 	If I extinguish the candle ,  I can light it again if I regret it . 
when I have plucked thy rose I cannot give it vital growth again ,  It must needs wither . 	when I’ve plucked this rose ,  I can’t make it grow again; it will have no choice but to wither and die . 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
othello ? 	othello ? 
ay ,  Desdemona . 	yes ,  Desdemona . 
will you come to bed ,  my lord ? 	will you come to bed ,  my lord ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
alack ,  my lord ,  what do you mean by that ? 	oh ,  my lord ,  what do you mean by that ? 
well ,  do it ,  and be brief . 	be quick about it . 
I will walk by . 	I’ll wait over here . 
I would not kill thy unpreparèd spirit . 	I don’t want to kill you before you’ve readied your soul . 
no ,  heavens forfend ,  I would not kill thy soul ! 	no ,  I don’t want to send your soul to hell when I kill you . 
talk you of killing ? 	you’re talking about killing ? 
ay ,  I do . 	yes ,  I am . 
then heaven Have mercy on me ! 	then heaven have mercy on me . 
amen ,  with all my heart . 	amen to that ,  from the bottom of my heart . 
If you say ,  I hope you will not kill me . 	If you really feel that way ,  then I hope you won’t kill me . 
humh ! 	hmmph ! 
why I should fear I know not ,  Since guiltiness I know not . 	I don’t know why I should be afraid ,  since I haven’t done anything wrong . 
but yet I feel I fear . 	but I’m still afraid . 
think on thy sins . 	think of your sins . 
they are loves I bear to you . 	my only sin was loving you too much . 
ay ,  and for that thou diest . 	yes ,  that’s why you have to die . 
that death’s unnatural that kills for loving . 	you’re wrong to kill me for loving you . 
alas ,  why gnaw you so your nether lip ? 	why are you chewing on your lower lip like that ? 
some bloody passion shakes your very frame . 	you’re shaking with emotion . 
these are portents ,  but yet I hope ,  I hope They do not point on me . 	these are bad omens ,  but I hope ,  I hope ,  they don’t predict my future . 
I will so . 	I will . 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s this all about ? 
that handkerchief Which I so loved and gave thee ,  thou gav’st To Cassio . 	you gave that handkerchief ,  the one I loved and gave to you ,  to Cassio . 
no ,  by my life and soul ! 	no ,  I swear by my life and soul ! 
send for the man and ask him . 	bring him here and ask him . 
thou art on thy deathbed . 	you’re on your deathbed . 
ay—but not yet to die ! 	but I’m not dying yet ! 
presently . 	yes ,  right now . 
therefore confess thee freely of thy sin ,  For to deny each article with oath Cannot remove nor choke the strong conception That I do groan withal . 	so confess your sin freely now . 
thou art to die . 	you’re going to die . 
oh ,  heaven have mercy on me ! 	then heaven have mercy on me ! 
I say  “ amen .  ” 	amen to that . 
and have you mercy too ! 	and you have mercy on me too ! 
I never gave him token . 	I never gave him any token of romantic love . 
by heaven ,  I saw my handkerchief in ’s hand . 	I saw him holding the handkerchief ! 
o perjured woman ,  thou dost stone my heart ,  And mak’st me call what I intend to do A murder ,  which I thought a sacrifice ! 	you liar ,  you’re turning my heart to stone ,  and making me call what I’ll do murder ,  when I had been thinking of it as a sacrifice ! 
I saw the handkerchief . 	I saw the handkerchief . 
he hath confessed . 	he’s already done so . 
what ,  my lord ? 	what ,  my lord ? 
that he hath usèd thee . 	that he had sex with you . 
how ? 	what ? 
ay . 	yes . 
he will not say so . 	he wouldn’t say that . 
no ,  his mouth is stopped . 	no . 
honest Iago Hath ta'en order for ’t . 	honest Iago’s arranged that . 
what ,  is he dead ? 	what ,  is he dead ? 
had all his hairs been lives My great revenge had stomach for them all . 	If he had as many lives as he’s got hairs on his head ,  I would’ve killed them all in revenge . 
alas ,  he is betrayed and I undone . 	oh ,  he’s been betrayed ,  and I’ve been ruined . 
oh ,  banish me ,  my lord ,  but kill me not ! 	send me away ,  my lord ,  but don’t kill me ! 
kill me tomorrow—let me live tonight ! 	kill me tomorrow—but let me live tonight . 
nay ,  if you strive— But half an hour ! 	no ,  if you struggle with me— Just half an hour ! 
but while I say one prayer ! 	just let me say one prayer ! 
It is too late . 	It’s too late . 
what noise is this ? —Not dead ? 	what’s that noise ? 
not yet quite dead ? 	aren’t you dead yet ? 
who’s there ? 	who’s there ? 
yes ,  ’tis Emilia . — 'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio’s death ,  The noise was high . 	yes ,  it’s Emilia . 
what’s the matter with thee now ? 	what’s the matter with you now ? 
but now ,  my lord . 	yes ,  just now ,  my lord . 
cassio ,  my lord ,  hath killed a young Venetian Called Roderigo . 	cassio’s killed a young Venetian named Roderigo . 
roderigo killed ? 	roderigo’s been killed ? 
and Cassio killed ! 	and Cassio’s killed ? 
no ,  Cassio is not killed . 	no ,  Cassio wasn’t killed . 
not Cassio killed ! 	cassio’s not dead ? 
then murder’s out of tune ,  And sweet revenge grows harsh . 	then the wrong man is dead ,  and sweet revenge has gone wrong . 
oh ,  falsely ,  falsely murdered ! 	oh ,  I’ve been murdered unfairly ! 
alas ,  what cry is that ? 	oh Lord ,  who’s that crying ? 
that ? 	that ? 
what ? 	what ? 
out and alas ,  that was my lady’s voice . 	oh ,  no ,  that was my lady’s voice . 
help ! 	help ! 
help ,  ho ,  help ! 	help ! 
o lady ,  speak again ! 	oh ,  lady ,  speak again . 
sweet Desdemona ! 	sweet Desdemona ! 
o sweet mistress ,  speak ! 	oh sweet mistress ,  speak ! 
a guiltless death I die . 	I’m dying an innocent woman . 
oh ,  who hath done this deed ? 	oh ,  who did this thing ? 
nobody . 	no one . 
I myself . 	I did it myself . 
commend me to my kind lord . 	give my love to my kind husband . 
oh ,  farewell ! 	oh ,  goodbye ! 
why ,  how should she be murdered ? 	why ,  how could she have been murdered ? 
alas ,  who knows ? 	my God ,  who knows ? 
you heard her say herself it was not I . 	you heard her say it wasn’t me . 
she said so . 	yes ,  she said that . 
I must needs report the truth . 	I must go report what happened . 
she’s like a liar gone to burning hell . 	she was lying even as she was going down to hell . 
twas I that killed her . 	I did kill her . 
oh ,  the more angel she ,  And you the blacker devil ! 	then she was even more an angel ,  and you’re an even blacker devil ! 
she turned to folly ,  and she was a whore . 	she cheated on me ,  and she was a whore . 
thou dost belie her ,  and thou art a devil . 	you slander her ,  you devil . 
she was false as water . 	she was fickle and unfaithful ,  like water . 
oh ,  she was heavenly true ! 	she was utterly true to you ! 
cassio did top her ,  ask thy husband else . 	ask your husband if you doubt me . 
oh ,  I were damned beneath all depth in hell ,  But that I did proceed upon just grounds To this extremity . 	If I didn’t have a good reason to do this ,  damn me to the very bottom of hell . 
thy husband knew it all . 	your husband knew about everything . 
my husband ! 	my husband ! 
thy husband . 	your husband . 
that she was false to wedlock ? 	he said she was unfaithful ? 
ay ,  with Cassio . 	yes ,  with Cassio . 
had she been true ,  If heaven would make me such another world Of one entire and perfect chrysolite ,  I’d not have sold her for it . 	If she’d been faithful to me ,  I never would have given her up ,  not even if God himself offered me a jewel as big as a planet in exchange for her . 
my husband ? 	my husband . 
ay ,  ’twas he that told me on her first . 	yes ,  he’s the one who first told me about her . 
an honest man he is ,  and hates the slime That sticks on filthy deeds . 	he’s an honest man who detests evil actions . 
my husband ! 	my husband ? 
what needs this iterance ,  woman ? 	why do you keep repeating that ,  woman ? 
I say thy husband . 	I’m telling you ,  your husband . 
o mistress ,  villainy hath made mocks with love ! 	oh ,  my mistress ,  a villain has made a mockery of your love ! 
my husband say that she was false ! 	my husband said she was unfaithful ! 
he ,  woman . 	yes ,  him ,  woman . 
I say  “ thy husband ” —dost understand the word ? 	I said  “ your husband .  ” —Do you understand that word ? 
my friend ,  thy husband ,  honest ,  honest Iago . 	my friend ,  your husband ,  the honest ,  honest Iago . 
If he say so ,  may his pernicious soul Rot half a grain a day ! 	If he said that ,  then I hope his malicious soul rots in hell forever . 
he lies to th' heart . 	he’s lying through his teeth ! 
she was too fond of her most filthy bargain . 	she was too attached to her filthy marriage ever to do a thing like that ! 
ha ! 	ha ! 
do thy worst . 	go ahead ,  do your worst . 
this deed of thine is no more worthy heaven Than thou wast worthy her . 	you weren’t good enough for her . 
peace ,  you were best . 	you’d better shut up ! 
o gull ! 	oh ,  you idiot ! 
o dolt ! 	you stupid fool ! 
as ignorant as dirt ! 	as dumb as dirt ! 
thou hast done a deed— I care not for thy sword ,  I’ll make thee known	I’ll tell everyone what you did ,  even if it
the Moor hath killed my mistress ! 	the Moor’s killed my mistress ! 
murder ,  murder ! 	murder ,  murder ! 
what is the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
how now ,  general ? 	what’s going on here ,  general ? 
oh ,  are you come ,  Iago ? 	oh ,  are you here ,  Iago ? 
you have done well ,  That men must lay their murders on your neck . 	you’ve done a good job ,  that other men can attribute their murders to you ! 
what is the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
I told him what I thought ,  and told no more Than what he found himself was apt and true . 	I told him what I thought . 
but did you ever tell him she was false ? 	but did you tell him she cheated on him ? 
I did . 	I did . 
you told a lie ,  an odious ,  damnèd lie . 	then you told a lie ,  a sick ,  wicked lie . 
upon my soul ,  a lie ,  a wicked lie . 	I swear on my soul it was a lie . 
she false with Cassio ! 	you said she slept with Cassio . 
did you say with Cassio ? 	did you say Cassio ? 
with Cassio ,  mistress . 	yes ,  with Cassio . 
go to ,  charm your tongue . 	now be quiet . 
my mistress here lies murdered in her bed— Oh ,  heavens forfend ! 	my mistress here lies murdered in her bed— No ,  heaven forbid ! 
there’s no composition in this news That gives them credit . 	you can’t trust them . 
Indeed ,  they are disproportioned . 	It’s true ,  they’re inconsistent . 
my letters say a hundred and seven galleys . 	my letters say there are a hundred and seven ships . 
and mine a hundred and forty . 	and mine say a hundred and forty . 
and mine ,  two hundred . 	and mine say two hundred . 
but though they jump not on a just account— As in these cases ,  where the aim reports 'Tis oft with difference—yet do they all confirm A Turkish fleet ,  and bearing up to Cyprus . 	but often in these cases ,  reports are just estimates . 
nay ,  it is possible enough to judgment . 	yes ,  we get the idea . 
a messenger from the galleys . 	It’s a messenger from the warships . 
and your reports have set the murder on . 	and your lies caused this murder . 
I thought so then ,  I’ll kill myself for grief . 	I’ll kill myself out of grief ! 
oh ,  villainy ,  villainy ! 	oh ,  evil ,  evil ! 
what ,  are you mad ? 	are you crazy ? 
I charge you ,  get you home . 	I’m ordering you ,  go home . 
good gentlemen ,  let me have leave to speak . 	good gentlemen ,  give me permission to speak . 
tis proper I obey him ,  but not now . 	I know I ought to obey my husband ,  but not now . 
perchance ,  Iago ,  I will ne'er go home . 	maybe I’ll never go home again ,  Iago ! 
oh ! 	oh ! 
oh ! 	oh ! 
oh ! 	oh ! 
nay ,  lay thee down and roar ,  For thou hast killed the sweetest innocent That e'er did lift up eye . 	yes ,  go ahead and moan ,  because you killed the sweetest ,  most innocent woman who ever lived ! 
oh ,  she was foul ! — I scarce did know you ,  uncle . 	she was filthy ! 
I am glad thy father’s dead ,  Thy match was mortal to him ,  and pure grief Shore his old thread in twain . 	I’m glad your father isn’t alive to see this . 
did he live now , 	him terribly . 
this sight would make him do a desperate turn ,  Yea ,  curse his better angel from his side And fall to reprobation . 	It would make him curse the heavens and be damned to hell . 
tis pitiful ,  but yet Iago knows That she with Cassio hath the act of shame A thousand times committed . 	It’s sad ,  but Iago knows she had sex with Cassio a thousand times . 
zounds ,  hold your peace . 	damn it ,  shut your mouth . 
let heaven and men and devils ,  let them all ,  All ,  all cry shame against me ,  yet I’ll speak . 	let heaven and men and devils tell me to shut me up . 
be wise ,  and get you home . 	If you’re smart ,  you’ll go home . 
I will not . 	I won’t . 
fie ! 	shame on you ! 
your sword upon a woman ? 	drawing your sword on a woman ? 
o thou dull Moor ! 	oh ,  you stupid Moor ! 
that handkerchief thou speak’st of I found by fortune and did give my husband . 	I found that handkerchief by accident and gave it to my husband . 
for often ,  with a solemn earnestness— More than indeed belonged to such a trifle— He begged of me to steal it . 	he’d begged me to steal it many times . 
villainous whore ! 	you evil whore ! 
she give it Cassio ? 	you think she gave it to Cassio ? 
no ,  alas ,  I found it And I did give ’t my husband . 	no ,  I found it and gave it to my husband . 
filth ,  thou liest ! 	you piece of filth ,  you’re lying ! 
by heaven ,  I do not ,  I do not ,  gentlemen . —   O murderous coxcomb ! 	I swear I’m not lying . 
are there no stones in heaven But what serve for the thunder ? —Precious villain ! 	you absolute villain ! 
sure he hath killed his wife . 	he’s killed his wife ! 
ay ,  ay . 	yes ,  yes ! 
oh ,  lay me by my mistress' side . 	lay me next to my mistress . 
he’s gone ,  but his wife’s killed . 	he’s gone ,  and his wife’s dead . 
let him not pass ,  But kill him rather . 	kill him rather than let him leave this room . 
but why should honor outlive honesty ? 	but why should my reputation for honor last longer than my honor did ? 
let it go all . 	let it all go . 
what did thy song bode ,  lady ? 	what did your song mean ,  lady ? 
hark ,  canst thou hear me ? 	can you hear me ? 
I will play the swan . 	I’ll die like a swan . 
and die in music . 	they sing when they die . 
oh ,  here it is . 	here it is . 
uncle ,  I must come forth . 	uncle ,  I’m coming out ! 
look in upon me then and speak with me ,  Or ,  naked as I am ,  I will assault thee . 	look in on me ,  and talk with me ,  or I’ll attack even without a weapon . 
what is the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
behold ,  I have a weapon . 	look ,  I have a weapon ,  the best sword a soldier could have . 
that with this little arm and this good sword I have made my way through more impediments Than twenty times your stop . 	I’ve fought my way through obstacles twenty times more terrifying than you with this weapon . 
but ,  oh ,  vain boast ! 	but
who can control his fate ? 	who can control his fate ? 
tis not so now . 	I’m not like that now . 
be not afraid ,  though you do see me weaponed . 	don’t be afraid ,  even though you see me with a weapon . 
here is my journey’s end ,  here is my butt ,  And very sea - mark of my utmost sail . 	this is the end of my journey ,  the end of my life . 
do you go back dismayed ? 	are you backing away in fear ? 
tis a lost fear . 	there’s no reason to be afraid . 
where should Othello go ? — Now ,  how dost thou look now ? 	where would Othello go ? —Oh ,  look at you ! 
o ill - starred wench ,  Pale as thy smock ! 	you’re as pale as your nightgown ! 
when we shall meet at compt This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven And fiends will snatch at it . 	when we meet on Judgment Day ,  that look of yours will send me from heaven to hell ,  where devils will grab me . 
cold ,  cold ,  my girl ,  Even like thy chastity . 	you’re cold ,  cold ,  and you were never hot with lust . 
o cursed ,  cursed slave ! 	oh you damned villain ! 
whip me ,  ye devils ,  From the possession of this heavenly sight ! 	whip me ,  you devils ,  so I don’t have to look at this heavenly sight ! 
where is this rash and most unfortunate man ? 	where is that poor rash man ? 
that’s he that was Othello . 	you mean the man who used to be Othello ? 
here I am . 	here I am . 
where is that viper ? 	where’s that snake ? 
bring the villain forth . 	bring the villain forward . 
I take it much unkindly That thou ,  Iago ,  who hast had my purse As if the strings were thine ,  shouldst know of this . 	I don’t like it that you knew about this ,  Iago . 
sblood ,  but you’ll not hear me ! 	damn it ,  you’re not listening to me ! 
thou told’st me Thou didst hold him in thy hate . 	you told me you hated him . 
despise me If I do not . 	I do hate
I look down towards his feet ,  but that’s a fable . 	but that’s just a fairy tale . 
If that thou be’st a devil ,  I cannot kill thee . 	If you are a devil ,  I won’t be able to kill you . 
wrench his sword from him . 	take his sword away from him . 
I bleed ,  sir ,  but not killed . 	I’m bleeding ,  but you didn’t kill me . 
I am not sorry neither . 	I’m not sorry ,  either . 
I’d have thee live ,  For in my sense ’tis happiness to die . 	I want you to live ,  since to me ,  death is happiness . 
why ,  anything . 	say anything . 
this wretch hath part confessed his villainy . 	this poor guy’s partly confessed his plan . 
did you and he consent in Cassio’s death ? 	did you plan Cassio’s death with him ? 
ay . 	yes . 
dear general ,  I never gave you cause . 	dear general ,  I never gave you any reason to hate me . 
I do believe it ,  and I ask your pardon . 	I believe you ,  and I ask you to forgive me . 
will you ,  I pray ,  demand that demi - devil Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body ? 	will you please make this half - devil say why he tricked me and damned my soul ? 
demand me nothing . 	don’t ask me anything . 
what you know ,  you know . 	you know what you know . 
from this time forth I never will speak word . 	from this moment on ,  I’ll never say another word . 
what ,  not to pray ? 	what ,  not even to pray ? 
well ,  thou dost best . 	well ,  do your best . 
the one of them imports The death of Cassio to be undertook By Roderigo . 	this one talks about how Roderigo should kill Cassio . 
oh ,  villain ! 	oh ,  you villain ! 
most heathenish and most gross ! 	ungodly and monstrous ! 
o thou pernicious caitiff ! 	oh ,  you wicked scoundrel ! 
how came you ,  Cassio ,  by that handkerchief That was my wife’s ? 	cassio ,  how did you get my wife’s handkerchief ? 
I found it in my chamber ,  And he himself confessed but even now That there he dropped it for a special purpose Which wrought to his desire . 	I found it in my room ,  and Iago just confessed that he put it there for his own purposes . 
your power and your command is taken off And Cassio rules in Cyprus . 	you’re stripped of your power and your command ,  and Cassio will govern Cyprus . 
for this slave ,  If there be any cunning cruelty That can torment him much and hold him long ,  It shall be his . 	as for this slave ,  Iago ,  if we can think of any torture that will hurt him a lot but keep him alive a long time ,  he’ll have it . 
you shall close prisoner rest Till that the nature of your fault be known To the Venetian state . —Come ,  bring him away . 	you’ll remain a prisoner until we bring your crimes to the Venetian government . —Okay ,  take him away . 
nothing extenuate ,  Nor set down aught in malice . 	but enough about that . 
then must you speak Of one that loved not wisely ,  but too well . 	when you record these sad events in your letters ,  please describe me exactly as I am . 
of one not easily jealous ,  but being wrought ,  Perplexed in the extreme . 	don’t tone things down or exaggerate them out of hostility . 
of one whose hand ,  Like the base Indian ,  threw a pearl away Richer than all his tribe . 	If you’re being fair ,  you’ll have to describe me as someone who loved too much ,  but who wasn’t wise about it . 
set you down this , 	write all this
and say besides that in Aleppo once ,  Where a malignant and a turbaned Turk Beat a Venetian and traduced the state ,  I took by the throat the circumcisèd dog ,  And smote him ,  thus . 	down ,  and then say also that in Aleppo I once saw a Turk beating a Venetian ,  so I grabbed the Turk by the throat and hit him like this . 
oh ,  bloody period ! 	oh ,  what a bloody end to all this ! 
all that is spoke is marred . 	everything we’ve heard is bad . 
this did I fear ,  but thought he had no weapon ,  For he was great of heart . 	I was afraid this would happen ,  because he was a noble ,  brave man ,  but I didn’t think he had a weapon . 
how say you by this change ? 	what do you think about this change ? 
this cannot be ,  By no assay of reason . 	they can’t have changed; there’s no way this could be true . 
tis a pageant ,  To keep us in false gaze . 	It’s a trick to confuse us . 
here is more news . 	here’s some more news coming in . 
ay ,  so I thought . 	that’s just what I thought . 
how many ,  as you guess ? 	how many ,  can you guess ? 
of thirty sail . 	thirty ships . 
and now they do re - stem Their backward course ,  bearing with frank appearance Their purposes toward Cyprus . 	now they’ve turned around and are clearly heading for Cyprus . 
signior Montano ,  Your trusty and most valiant servitor ,  With his free duty recommends you thus ,  And prays you to believe him . 	signor Montano ,  your brave and loyal servant ,  gives you this information and asks you to send reinforcements to relieve him . 
tis certain then for Cyprus . 	then it’s certain they’re heading for Cyprus . 
marcus Luccicos ,  is not he in town ? 	Is Marcus Luccicos in town ? 
he’s now in Florence . 	no ,  he’s in Florence . 
write from us to him . 	write to him immediately . 
post - post - haste ,  dispatch . 	hurry . 
here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor . 	here come Brabantio and the brave Moor . 
good your grace ,  pardon me . 	forgive me ,  your grace . 
why ,  what’s the matter ? 	why ,  what’s the matter ? 
my daughter ! 	It’s my daughter ! 
oh ,  my daughter ! 	oh ,  my daughter ! 
dead ? 	Is she dead ? 
ay ,  to me . 	she’s dead to me . 
whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself And you of her ,  the bloody book of law You shall yourself read in the bitter letter ,  After your own sense ,  yea ,  though our proper son Stood in your action . 	and you yourself will determine the sentence as you see fit ,  and impose the death penalty if you choose to ,  even if the criminal were my own son . 
humbly I thank your grace . 	I humbly thank you ,  sir . 
we are very sorry for’t . 	we’re sorry to hear this . 
nothing ,  but this is so . 	nothing ,  but this is true . 
the very head and front of my offending Hath this extent ,  no more . 	there’s nothing more . 
more than pertains to feats of broils and battle ,  And therefore little shall I grace my cause In speaking for myself . 	I’m awkward in my speech and I’m not a smooth talker . 
a maiden never bold ,  Of spirit so still and quiet that her motion Blushed at herself . 	she blushes at the slightest thing . 
against all rules of nature ,  and must be driven To find out practices of cunning hell Why this should be . 	the devil must be behind this . 
I therefore vouch again That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood Or with some dram ,  conjured to this effect ,  He wrought upon her . 	therefore I say again that he must have used some powerful drug or magic potion on her . 
but ,  Othello ,  speak . 	tell us ,  Othello . 
or came it by request and such fair question As soul to soul affordeth ? 	or did you agree to this as equals ? 
and let her speak of me before her father . 	of her father . 
fetch Desdemona hither . 	bring Desdemona here . 
you best know the place . 	you know where she is . 
and till she come ,  as truly as to heaven I do confess the vices of my blood So justly to your grave ears I’ll present How I did thrive in this fair lady’s love And she in mine . 	In the meantime I’ll tell you all ,  as honestly as I confess my sins to God ,  how I wooed this beautiful lady ,  and how she came to love me . 
say it ,  Othello . 	tell us ,  Othello . 
her father loved me ,  oft invited me ,  Still questioned me the story of my life From year to year ,  the battles ,  sieges ,  fortunes ,  That I have passed . 	her father loved me and used to invite me to his house often ,  continually asking me about my life and all the battles I’ve fought . 
these things to hear Would Desdemona seriously incline . 	when I talked about all these things ,  Desdemona used to listen attentively . 
she wished she had not heard it ,  yet she wished That heaven had made her such a man . 	she said she wished she hadn’t heard it ,  but she also wished there was a man like me for her . 
she thanked me And bade me ,  if I had a friend that loved her ,  I should but teach him how to tell my story And that would woo her . 	she thanked me and told me that if a friend of mine had a story like mine to tell ,  she’d fall in love with him . 
upon this hint I spake . 	I took the hint and spoke to her . 
she loved me for the dangers I had passed ,  And I loved her that she did pity them . 	she said she loved me for the dangers I’d survived ,  and I loved her for feeling such strong emotions about me . 
this only is the witchcraft I have used . 	that’s the only witchcraft I ever used . 
here comes the lady . 	here comes my wife now . 
let her witness it . 	she’ll confirm everything . 
I think this tale would win my daughter too . 	I think a story like that would win my own daughter over . 
I pray you ,  hear her speak . 	please let her speak . 
If she confess that she was half the wooer ,  Destruction on my head if my bad blame Light on the man . —Come hither ,  gentle mistress . 	If she admits she wanted this ,  then I won’t blame Othello . —Come here ,  my child . 
do you perceive in all this noble company Where most you owe obedience ? 	who do you obey here ? 
my noble father ,  I do perceive here a divided duty . 	father ,  this isn’t easy for me . 
to you I am bound for life and education . 	I’m torn . 
you are the lord of duty . 	you’re the one I have to obey . 
I am hitherto your daughter . 	I’m your daughter . 
I have done . 	I’m finished ,  then . 
please it your grace ,  on to the state affairs . 	duke ,  please go ahead with your state business . 
I had rather to adopt a child than get it . — Come hither ,  Moor . 	I’d rather adopt a child than have one of my own . —Come here ,  Moor . 
I here do give thee that with all my heart Which ,  but thou hast already ,  with all my heart I would keep from thee . 	with all my heart ,  I give you that thing which ,  if you didn’t already have it ,  I’d try with all my heart to keep from you . 
for thy escape would teach me tyranny ,  To hang clogs on them . —I have done ,  my lord . 	you would have made me treat them like a tyrant . —I’m done ,  my lord . 
let me speak like yourself and lay a sentence Which ,  as a grise or step ,  may help these lovers . 	let me refer to a proverb that may help you forgive these lovers: if you can’t change something ,  don’t cry about it . 
I humbly beseech you ,  proceed to th' affairs of state . 	please ,  I’m asking you ,  go ahead and get back to your state affairs . 
the Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for Cyprus . 	the Turks are heading for Cyprus with a powerful fleet . 
why ,  at her father’s . 	she can stay at her father’s house . 
I’ll not have it so . 	I won’t allow it . 
nor I . 	neither will I . 
most gracious Duke ,  To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear And let me find a charter in your voice ,  T' assist my simpleness . 	dear Duke ,  please listen to what I have to say . 
what would you ,  Desdemona ? 	what do you want to do ,  Desdemona ? 
that I did love the Moor to live with him ,  My downright violence and storm of fortunes May trumpet to the world . 	when I fell in love with Othello I made up my mind that I wanted to live with him . 
I saw Othello’s visage in his mind ,  And to his honors and his valiant parts Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate . 	I saw Othello’s true face when I saw his mind . 
let me go with him . 	let me go with him . 
let her have your voice . 	please allow her to do this . 
be it as you shall privately determine ,  Either for her stay or going . 	you can decide that privately . 
th' affair cries haste And speed must answer it . 	what’s important is the urgency of this mission . 
you must away tonight . 	you’ll have to leave tonight . 
with all my heart . 	with all my heart ,  I’ll go right away . 
at nine i' th' morning here we’ll meet again . 	we’ll meet again at nine in the morning . 
othello ,  leave some officer behind And he shall our commission bring to you ,  And such things else of quality and respect As doth import you . 	othello ,  have one of your officers stay behind to bring you your commission and whatever else is important to you . 
to his conveyance I assign my wife ,  With what else needful your good grace shall think To be sent after me . 	he’ll accompany my wife ,  and bring whatever else you think I might need . 
wherein the toged consuls can propose As masterly as he . 	which any peace - lover can do . 
mere prattle without practice Is all his soldiership . 	his military understanding is all theory ,  no practice . 
why ,  there’s no remedy . 	and there’s nothing I can do about it . 
tis the curse of service . 	that’s the curse of military service . 
now sir ,  be judge yourself ,  Whether I in any just term am affined To love the Moor . 	now ,  you tell me: should I feel loyal to the Moor ? 
I would not follow him then . 	If you don’t like him you should quit . 
o sir ,  content you . 	no ,  calm down . 
I follow him to serve my turn upon him . 	I’m serving under him to take advantage of him . 
we cannot all be masters ,  nor all masters Cannot be truly followed . 	we can’t all be masters ,  and not all masters should be followed . 
you shall mark Many a duteous and knee - crooking knave That (doting on his own obsequious bondage) Wears out his time much like his master’s ass For naught but provender ,  and when he’s old ,  cashiered . 	look at all the devoted servants who work for their masters their whole lives for nothing but their food ,  and then when they get old they’re terminated . 
whip me such honest knaves . 	they ought to be whipped for being so stupid . 
these fellows have some soul , 	let me tell
let it be so . 	all right ,  then . 
use Desdemona well . 	treat Desdemona well . 
look to her ,  Moor ,  if thou hast eyes to see . 	keep an eye on her ,  Moor . 
she has deceived her father ,  and may thee . 	she lied to me ,  and she may lie to you . 
my life upon her faith ! —Honest Iago ,  My Desdemona must I leave to thee . 	Iago ,  I’m leaving my dear Desdemona with you . 
I prithee ,  let thy wife attend on her ,  And bring them after in the best advantage . 	have your wife attend to her ,  and bring them along as soon as you can . 
come ,  Desdemona ,  I have but an hour Of love ,  of worldly matter and direction ,  To spend with thee . 	come on ,  Desdemona ,  I’ve only got an hour of love to spend with you ,  to tell you what you need to do . 
we must obey the time . 	we’re on a tight schedule . 
Iago . 	Iago . 
what say’st thou ,  noble heart ? 	what do you have to say ,  noble friend ? 
what will I do ,  think’st thou ? 	what do you think I should do ? 
why ,  go to bed ,  and sleep . 	go to bed ,  and sleep . 
I will incontinently drown myself . 	I’m going to go drown myself . 
If thou dost I shall never love thee after . 	If you do that ,  I’ll never respect you again . 
why ,  thou silly gentleman ! 	why ,  you silly man ! 
oh ,  villainous ! 	oh ,  how stupid ! 
I have looked upon the world for four times seven years ,  and since I could distinguish betwixt a benefit and an injury I never found man that knew how to love himself . 	I’ve been alive for twenty - eight years ,  and I’ve never met a man who knew what was good for him . 
ere I would say I would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen ,  I would change my humanity with a baboon . 	I’d rather be a baboon than kill myself out of love for some woman I can’t have . 
what should I do ? 	what should I do ? 
I confess it is my shame to be so fond ,  but it is not in my virtue to amend it . 	I know it’s foolish to be so much in love ,  but I can’t help it . 
virtue ? 	can’t help it ? 
a fig ! 	nonsense ! 
tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus . 	what we are is up to us . 
our bodies are our gardens ,  to the which our wills are gardeners . 	our bodies are like gardens and our willpower is like the gardener . 
so that if we will plant nettles or sow lettuce ,  set hyssop and weed up thyme ,  supply it with one gender of herbs or distract it with many—either to have it sterile with idleness ,  or manured with industry—why ,  the power and corrigible authority of this lies in our wills . 	depending on what we plant—weeds or lettuce ,  or one kind of herb rather than a variety ,  the garden will either be barren and useless ,  or rich and productive . 
If the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality ,  the blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most prepost'rous conclusions . 	If we didn’t have rational minds to counterbalance our emotions and desires ,  our bodily urges would take over . 
but we have reason to cool our raging motions ,  our carnal stings ,  our unbitted lusts . 	thankfully ,  we have reason to cool our raging lusts . 
It cannot be . 	I don’t believe it . 
It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will . 	you feel love because you feel lust and you have no willpower . 
come ,  be a man . 	come on ,  be a man . 
drown thyself ? 	drown yourself ? 
drown cats and blind puppies ! 	drowning is for cats or blind puppies—don’t drown yourself ! 
I have professed me thy friend ,  and I confess me knit to thy deserving with cables of perdurable toughness . 	I’ve told you I’m your friend ,  and I’ll stick by you . 
I could never better stead thee than now . 	I’ve never been more useful to you than I will be now . 
put money in thy purse . 	here’s what you’ll do . 
these Moors are changeable in their wills—fill thy purse with money . 	moors are moody people . —So sell your lands and raise a lot of cash . 
the food that to him now is as luscious as locusts shall be to him shortly as bitter as coloquintida . 	what seems sweet to him now will soon turn bitter . 
she must change for youth . 	she’ll have to have it . 
therefore ,  put money in thy purse . 	so have your money ready . 
If thou wilt needs damn thyself ,  do it a more delicate way than drowning . 	If you want to go to hell ,  there are better ways to do it than killing yourself . 
make all the money thou canst . 	raise all the money you can . 
If sanctimony and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian and supersubtle Venetian be not too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell ,  thou shalt enjoy her . 	I can get the better of religion and a few flimsy vows between a misguided barbarian and a depraved Venetian girl . 
a pox of drowning thyself ! 	and to hell with drowning yourself ! 
tis clean out of the way . 	that’s completely beside the point . 
thou art sure of me . 	you can trust me . 
go ,  make money . 	go now and get cash . 
I have told thee often ,  and I re - tell thee again and again ,  I hate the Moor . 	I told you before ,  and I’ll tell you again and again: I hate the Moor . 
let us be conjunctive in our revenge against him . 	so let’s join forces and get revenge . 
traverse ,  go ,  provide thy money . 	go get money . 
we will have more of this tomorrow . 	we’ll speak again tomorrow . 
adieu . 	goodbye . 
where shall we meet i' th' morning ? 	where will we meet in the morning ? 
at my lodging . 	at my house . 
I’ll be with thee betimes . 	I’ll be there early . 
no more of drowning ,  do you hear ? 	no more talk about killing yourself ,  okay ? 
I am changed . 	I’ve changed my mind about that . 
go to ,  farewell . 	go then ,  goodbye . 
put money enough in your purse . 	put a lot of cash together . 
I’ll sell all my land . 	I’m going to sell all my land . 
thus do I ever make my fool my purse . 	that’s how I always do it ,  getting money from fools . 
for I mine own gained knowledge should profane If I would time expend with such a snipe But for my sport and profit . 	I’d be wasting my skills dealing with an idiot like that if I couldn’t get something useful out of him . 
I hate the Moor ,  And it is thought abroad that ’twixt my sheets He’s done my office . 	I hate the Moor ,  and there’s a widespread rumor that he’s slept with my wife . 
I know not if ’t be true ,  But I ,  for mere suspicion in that kind ,  Will do as if for surety . 	I’m not sure it’s true ,  but just the suspicion is enough for me . 
he holds me well . 	he thinks highly of me . 
cassio’s a proper man . 	cassio’s a handsome man . 
let me see now , 	let’s see ,  how can I
to get his place and to plume up my will In double knavery . 	get his position and use him to hurt Othello at the same time ? 
how ? 	how ? 
how ? 	how ? 
let’s see . 	let’s see . 
I have ’t . 	I’ve worked it out . 
what from the cape can you discern at sea ? 	what can you see out on the ocean ? 
nothing at all . 	nothing . 
It is a high - wrought flood . 	It was windy on shore too . 
methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land ,  A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements . 	a big blast of wind shook our fortifications . 
what shall we hear of this ? 	what do you think will be the result of this storm ? 
a segregation of the Turkish fleet . 	the Turkish navy will be broken up . 
for do but stand upon the foaming shore ,  The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds ,  The wind - shaked surge ,  with high and monstrous mane ,  Seems to cast water on the burning bear ,  And quench the guards of th' ever - fixèd pole . 	the wind’s whipping up the waves so high you expect them to reach the clouds and splash against the stars in the sky . 
I never did like molestation view On the enchafèd flood . 	I’ve never seen the waters so disturbed . 
If that the Turkish fleet Be not ensheltered and embayed ,  they are drowned . 	If the Turkish fleet isn’t protected in some harbor ,  their men must all be drowned . 
It is impossible they bear it out . 	no ship could survive this storm . 
news ,  lads ,  Our wars are done ! 	I’ve got news ,  boys ,  the war’s over ! 
the desperate tempest hath so banged the Turks ,  That their designment halts . 	this terrible storm has smashed the Turks so badly that their plans are ruined . 
a noble ship of Venice Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance On most part of their fleet . 	one of our ships has reported that it saw most of their fleet shipwrecked . 
how ? 	what ? 
Is this true ? 	Is this true ? 
michael Cassio ,  Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello ,  Is come on shore . 	michael Cassio ,  lieutenant of the Moor Othello ,  has arrived on shore . 
the Moor himself at sea And is in full commission here for Cyprus . 	the Moor himself is still at sea . 
I am glad on ’t . 	I’m happy about that . 
tis a worthy governor . 	he’ll be a good governor . 
for they were parted With foul and violent tempest . 	the two of them were separated during the storm . 
pray heavens he be ,  For I have served him ,  and the man commands Like a full soldier . 	I hope to God Othello’s all right . 
come ,  let’s do so . 	let’s do that . 
for every minute is expectancy Of more arrivance . 	every minute we expect more ships to arrive . 
thanks ,  you the valiant of this warlike isle That so approve the Moor . 	thanks ,  you brave men who defend this island and respect Othello . 
oh ,  let the heavens Give him defense against the elements ,  For I have lost him on a dangerous sea . 	I hope heaven protects him from the weather ,  because I lost sight of him on the stormy sea . 
Is he well shipped ? 	Is his ship sturdy ? 
his bark is stoutly timbered and his pilot Of very expert and approved allowance Therefore my hopes ,  not surfeited to death ,  Stand in bold cure . 	yes ,  it’s well built ,  and the ship’s pilot is very expert and experienced . 
what noise ? 	what’s all that shouting about ? 
I pray you sir ,  go forth And give us truth who ’tis that is arrived . 	please go find out for certain who has arrived . 
I shall . 	I’ll do that . 
but good lieutenant ,  is your general wived ? 	good lieutenant ,  is your general married ? 
tis one Iago ,  ancient to the general . 	a man named Iago ,  the general’s ensign . 
what is she ? 	who’s that ? 
oh ,  behold ,  The riches of the ship is come on shore ! 	look ,  the precious Desdemona has arrived on shore . 
you men of Cyprus ,  let her have your knees . 	we should all kneel before her ,  men of Cyprus ! 
hail to thee ,  lady ,  and the grace of heaven ,  Before ,  behind thee ,  and on every hand ,  Enwheel thee round ! 	greetings ,  my lady ,  and may God always be with you . 
I thank you ,  valiant Cassio . 	thank you ,  brave Cassio . 
what tidings can you tell me of my lord ? 	Is there any news about my husband ? 
he is not yet arrived . 	he hasn’t arrived yet . 
nor know I aught But that he’s well and will be shortly here . 	as far as I know ,  he’s okay and will arrive here soon . 
oh ,  but I fear . 	oh ,  but I’m worried . 
how lost you company ? 	how did you two get separated ? 
the great contention of the sea and skies Parted our fellowship—   But ,  hark ! 	the storm separated us . 
see for the news . 	go find out the news . 
for ,  sir ,  It is as sure as you are Roderigo ,  Were I the Moor ,  I would not be Iago . 	you ,  as sure as your name’s Roderigo ,  if I were the Moor I wouldn’t want to be Iago . 
I am not what I am . 	I’m not who I appear to be . 
do ,  with like timorous accent and dire yell As when ,  by night and negligence ,  the fire Is spied in populous cities . 	do it ,  and shout like the city’s on fire . 
what ,  ho ,  Brabantio ! 	hey ,  Brabantio ! 
signior Brabantio ,  ho ! 	signor Brabantio ,  hey ! 
thieves ! 	thieves ! 
thieves ! 	thieves ! 
look to your house ,  your daughter ,  and your bags ! 	check on your daughter ,  your house ,  your money ! 
thieves ! 	thieves ! 
thieves ! 	thieves ! 
sir ,  would she give you so much of her lips As of her tongue she oft bestows on me ,  You’ll have enough . 	If she gave you as much lip as she gives me ,  you’d be sick of her by now . 
I find it still ,  when I have leave to sleep . 	she’s always talking when I want to sleep . 
marry ,  before your ladyship ,  I grant ,  She puts her tongue a little in her heart And chides with thinking . 	I admit that in front of you ,  my lady ,  she keeps a bit quiet . 
you have little cause to say so . 	you have no reason to say that . 
come on ,  come on . 	come on ,  come on . 
you are pictures out of door ,  bells in your parlors ,  wild - cats in your kitchens ,  saints in your injuries ,  devils being offended ,  players in your housewifery ,  and housewives in your beds . 	In your own kitchens you act like wildcats . 
oh ,  fie upon thee ,  slanderer ! 	shame on you ,  you slanderer ! 
nay ,  it is true ,  or else I am a Turk . 	no ,  it’s true ,  or if it’s not ,  I’m a villain . 
you rise to play and go to bed to work . 	you wake up to have fun ,  and you start work when you go to bed . 
no ,  let me not . 	no ,  I don’t . 
what wouldst thou write of me ,  if thou should’st praise me ? 	but if you had to say something nice about me ,  what would you say ? 
o gentle lady ,  do not put me to ’t ,  For I am nothing ,  if not critical . 	don’t make me do it ,  my lady . 
come on ,  assay . 	I’m critical by nature . 
ay ,  madam . 	yes ,  madam . 
I am not merry ,  but I do beguile The thing I am by seeming otherwise . 	I’m not as happy as I seem . 
come ,  how wouldst thou praise me ? 	come on ,  what would you say about me ? 
well praised ! 	very clever ! 
If she be black ,  and thereto have a wit ,  She’ll find a white that shall her blackness fit . 	even if she’s ugly ,  she’ll be smart enough to find a guy to sleep with her . 
worse and worse ! 	this is getting worse and worse ! 
how if fair and foolish ? 	what if she’s pretty but stupid ? 
oh ,  heavy ignorance ! 	you don’t know a thing ! 
thou praisest the worst best . 	you give your best praise to the worst women . 
but what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed ,  one that in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself ? 	but how would you praise a truly good woman ,  someone who had no reason to worry about what anyone said about her ? 
she that was ever fair and never proud ,  Had tongue at will and yet was never loud ,  Never lacked gold and yet went never gay ,  Fled from her wish and yet said  “ Now I may ,  ”  She that being angered ,  her revenge being nigh ,  Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly ,  She that in wisdom never was so frail To change the cod’s head for the salmon’s tail ,  She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind ,  See suitors following and not look behind ,  She was a wight ,  if ever such wights were— To do what ? 	a woman who was beautiful but never proud ,  who could speak well but knew when to be quiet ,  who dressed well but was never overdressed ,  who had self - restraint even when she could get what she wanted ,  a woman who never took revenge ,  who overlooked it when people hurt her ,  who was too wise to do anything stupid ,  who could think without revealing her thoughts ,  and who could refrain from flirting with men in love with her ,  that kind of woman ,  if she ever existed ,  would— Would do what ? 
to suckle fools and chronicle small beer . 	would raise babies and clip coupons . 
oh ,  most lame and impotent conclusion ! 	oh ,  that’s pathetic ! 
do not learn of him ,  Emilia ,  though he be thy husband . 	don’t listen to him ,  Emilia ,  even though he’s your husband . 
how say you ,  Cassio ? 	what do you think about him ,  Cassio ? 
Is he not a most profane and liberal counselor ? 	Isn’t he a horrible man ? 
he speaks home ,  madam . 	he speaks bluntly ,  madam . 
you may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar . 	he’s more of a soldier than a wise man . 
I know his trumpet . 	I recognize his trumpet . 
tis truly so . 	yes ,  it is . 
let’s meet him and receive him . 	let’s go greet him when he lands . 
lo ,  where he comes ! 	look ,  here he comes . 
oh my fair warrior ! 	my beautiful warrior ! 
my dear Othello ! 	my darling Othello ! 
It gives me wonder great as my content To see you here before me . 	I’m amazed you got here before me . 
oh ,  my soul’s joy ! 	but I’m overjoyed ! 
If it were now to die ,  'Twere now to be most happy ,  for I fear My soul hath her content so absolute That not another comfort like to this Succeeds in unknown fate . 	If I died right now I’d be completely happy ,  since I’ll probably never be as happy as this again in my life . 
the heavens forbid But that our loves and comforts should increase ,  Even as our days do grow . 	god willing ,  our love and our happiness will only increase as we get older . 
amen to that ,  sweet powers ! 	amen to that ! 
I cannot speak enough of this content . 	I can’t talk about my happiness anymore . 
It stops me here ,  it is too much of joy . 	It’s too much . 
come ,  let us to the castle . 	let’s go up to the castle . 
news ,  friends ! 	good news ,  friends . 
our wars are done ,  the Turks are drowned . 	the war’s over and the Turks are drowned . 
how does my old acquaintance of this isle ? — Honey ,  you shall be well desired in Cyprus ,  I have found great love amongst them . 	how are my old friends from this island doing ? —Honey ,  they’ll love you here in Cyprus . 
bring thou the master to the citadel . 	and bring the ship’s captain to the castle . 
he is a good one ,  and his worthiness Does challenge much respect . —Come ,  Desdemona ,  Once more ,  well met at Cyprus . 	he’s a good man . —Let’s go ,  Desdemona . 
do thou meet me presently at the harbor . —Come hither . 	meet me down at the harbor . —Come here . 
the lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard . 	lieutenant Cassio will be on guard duty tonight . 
first ,  I must tell thee this: Desdemona is directly in love with him . 	but first ,  I have to tell you that Desdemona’s completely in love with him . 
with him ? 	with Cassio ? 
why ,  ’tis not possible . 	that’s impossible . 
lay thy finger thus ,  and let thy soul be instructed . 	be quiet and listen to me . 
all which the Moor is defective in . 	othello isn’t any of those things . 
now sir ,  this granted—as it is a most pregnant and unforced position—who stands so eminent in the degree of this fortune as Cassio does ? 	now ,  if that’s true—and it’s obviously true—who’s in a better position than Cassio ? 
besides ,  the knave is handsome ,  young ,  and hath all those requisites in him that folly and green minds look after . 	besides ,  he’s young and handsome ,  and he’s got all the qualities that naïve and silly girls go for . 
I cannot believe that in her . 	I can’t believe that . 
she’s full of most blessed condition . 	she’s very moral . 
the wine she drinks is made of grapes . 	like hell she is ! 
If she had been blessed ,  she would never have loved the Moor . 	If she were so moral ,  she would never have fallen in love with the Moor in the first place . 
blessed pudding ! 	good lord ! 
didst not mark that ? 	did you see that ? 
they met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together . 	they were lusting after each other . 
pish ! 	disgusting ! 
but ,  sir ,  be you ruled by me . 	but listen to me; let me guide you . 
I have brought you from Venice . 	I brought you here from Venice . 
watch you tonight for the command ,  I’ll lay ’t upon you . 	be on guard duty tonight . 
cassio knows you not . 	cassio doesn’t know you . 
I’ll not be far from you . 	I’ll be nearby . 
do you find some occasion to anger Cassio ,  either by speaking too loud ,  or tainting his discipline ,  or from what other course you please ,  which the time shall more favorably minister . 	make Cassio angry somehow ,  either by speaking too loud ,  or insulting his military skills ,  or however else you want . 
well . 	all right . 
sir ,  he’s rash and very sudden in choler ,  and haply may strike at you . 	he’s hot - tempered ,  and he might try to hit you with his staff . 
provoke him that he may . 	try to get him to do that . 
for even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny ,  whose qualification shall come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio . 	to get what you want ,  you need to get Cassio out of the way . 
I will do this ,  if you can bring it to any opportunity . 	I’ll do it ,  if you help me out . 
I warrant thee . 	I promise I will . 
meet me by and by at the citadel . 	meet me in a little while at the citadel . 
I must fetch his necessaries ashore . 	I need to get Othello’s things from the ship . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
adieu . 	goodbye . 
the thought whereof Doth ,  like a poisonous mineral ,  gnaw my inwards ,  And nothing can or shall content my soul Till I am evened with him ,  wife for wife . 	I won’t be satisfied until I get even with him ,  wife for wife . 
or ,  failing so ,  yet that I put the Moor At least into a jealousy so strong That judgment cannot cure . 	If I can’t do that ,  I can at least make the Moor so jealous that he can’t think straight . 
for besides these beneficial news ,  it is the celebration of his nuptial . 	for besides the good news ,  we are also celebrating his marriage . 
so much was his pleasure should be proclaimed . 	that’s the end of the announcement . 
all offices are open ,  and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the bell have told eleven . 	there will be a feast from five o'clock until eleven . 
bless the isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello ! 	god bless the island of Cyprus and our noble general Othello ! 
Iago is most honest . 	Iago’s a good man . 
michael ,  good night . 	goodnight ,  Michael . 
tomorrow with your earliest Let me have speech with you . — Come ,  my dear love ,  The purchase made ,  the fruits are to ensue: That profit’s yet to come ’tween me and you . 	come talk to me tomorrow as early as you can . —Come with me ,  my dear love . 
good night . 	good night ,  everyone . 
welcome ,  Iago . 	hello ,  Iago . 
we must to the watch . 	It’s time for us to stand guard . 
our general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona—who let us not therefore blame . 	the general got rid of us early tonight so he could be with Desdemona . —I can’t blame him . 
what is the reason of this terrible summons ? 	what’s the reason for this horrible shouting ? 
what is the matter there ? 	what’s the matter ? 
signior ,  is all your family within ? 	sir ,  is everyone in your family at home ? 
are your doors locked ? 	are your doors locked ? 
why ,  wherefore ask you this ? 	why are you asking me that ? 
zounds ,  sir ,  you’re robbed ! 	for God’s sake ,  sir ,  you’ve been robbed . 
for shame ,  put on your gown . 	your heart’s going to break . 
your heart is burst ,  you have lost half your soul . 	It’s like half your soul’s been ripped out . 
even now ,  now ,  very now ,  an old black ram Is tupping your white ewe . 	at this very minute an old black ram is having sex with your little white lamb . 
arise ,  arise ,  Awake the snorting citizens with the bell Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you . 	wake up ,  wake up ,  ring a bell and wake up all the snoring citizens . 
arise ,  I say ! 	get up ,  I tell you ! 
what ,  have you lost your wits ? 	are you crazy ? 
most reverend signior ,  do you know my voice ? 	do you recognize my voice ,  noble lord ? 
not I . 	not me . 
what are you ? 	who are you ? 
my name is Roderigo . 	my name’s Roderigo . 
I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors . 	I told you not to hang around my house . 
In honest plainness thou hast heard me say My daughter is not for thee . 	I’ve already told you quite plainly that my daughter will never marry you . 
sir ,  sir ,  sir—	sir ,  sir ,  sir—
Indeed she’s a most fresh and delicate creature . 	yes ,  she’s young and tender . 
what an eye she has ! 	like an invitation . 
an inviting eye ,  and yet methinks right modest . 	but she’s modest and ladylike too . 
and when she speaks ,  is it not an alarum to love ? 	and when she speaks ,  doesn’t her voice stir up passion ? 
she is indeed perfection . 	she’s a perfect woman ,  it’s true . 
well ,  happiness to their sheets ! 	well ,  good luck to them tonight in bed ! 
not tonight ,  good Iago . 	not tonight ,  Iago . 
I have very poor and unhappy brains for drinking . 	I’m not much of a drinker . 
I could well wish courtesy would invent some other custom of entertainment . 	I wish there was less social pressure to drink . 
oh ,  they are our friends . 	oh ,  but these are our friends . 
but one cup . 	just one glass . 
I’ll drink for you . 	I’ll do most of the drinking for you . 
I have drunk but one cup tonight ,  and that was craftily qualified too ,  and behold what innovation it makes here . 	I’ve already had a glass of wine tonight ,  watered down ,  but look how drunk I am . 
what ,  man ,  ’tis a night of revels ! 	what are you talking about ,  man ? 
the gallants desire it . 	tonight is for celebrating ! 
where are they ? 	where are they ? 
here at the door . 	by the door . 
I pray you call them in . 	please invite them in . 
I’ll do ’t ,  but it dislikes me . 	I’ll do it ,  but I don’t like it . 
If I can fasten but one cup upon him ,  With that which he hath drunk tonight already ,  He’ll be as full of quarrel and offense As my young mistress' dog . 	If I can just get him to drink one more glass after what he’s drunk already ,  he’ll be as argumentative and eager to fight as a little dog . 
now ’mongst this flock of drunkards Am I to put our Cassio in some action That may offend the isle . 	now I’ll get Cassio to do something in front of all these drunkards that will offend everyone on the island . 
but here they come . 	here they come . 
If consequence do but approve my dream My boat sails freely ,  both with wind and stream . 	If the future turns out as I hope it will ,  I’m all set for success . 
fore heaven ,  they have given me a rouse already . 	my God ,  they’ve given me a lot to drink . 
good faith ,  a little one ,  not past a pint ,  As I am a soldier . 	no ,  it was a little one ,  not more than a pint . 
some wine ,  ho ! 	bring in more wine ! 
fore heaven ,  an excellent song . 	my God ,  what a great song ! 
I learned it in England where indeed they are most potent in potting . 	I learned it in England ,  where they have a talent for drinking . 
your Dane ,  your German ,  and your swag - bellied Hollander—Drink ,  ho ! —are nothing to your English . 	the Danes ,  the Germans ,  and the Dutch—come on ,  drink ,  drink ! —are nothing compared to the English . 
Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking ? 	are Englishmen really such heavy drinkers ? 
why ,  he drinks you with facility your Dane dead drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your Almain . 	they drink Danes under the table ,  and it takes them no effort at all to out - drink Germans . 
to the health of our general ! 	let’s drink to our general ! 
I am for it ,  lieutenant ,  and I’ll do you justice . 	I’ll drink as much as you do ! 
oh ,  sweet England ! 	oh ,  sweet England ! 
why ,  this is a more exquisite song than the other . 	god ,  that song’s even better than the other one . 
will you hear ’t again ? 	do you want to hear it again ? 
no ,  for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that does those things . 	no ,  because we shouldn’t be doing that—stuff . 
well ,  heaven’s above all ,  and there be souls must be saved ,  and there be souls must not be saved . 	oh well ,  God’s in charge ,  and some people have to go to heaven ,  while other people have to go to hell . 
It’s true ,  good lieutenant . 	that’s true ,  lieutenant . 
for mine own part ,  no offence to the general nor any man of quality ,  I hope to be saved . 	speaking for myself—and no offense to the general or anyone else—I hope I’m going to heaven . 
and so do I too ,  lieutenant . 	me too ,  lieutenant . 
ay ,  but (by your leave) not before me . 	okay ,  but please not before me . 
the lieutenant is to be saved before the ancient . 	the lieutenant has to get to heaven before the ensign . 
let’s have no more of this ,  let’s to our affairs . —Forgive us our sins ! —Gentlemen ,  let’s look to our business . 	but let’s stop this drinking and get down to business . —God forgive our sins ! —Gentlemen ,  let’s get down to business . 
do not think ,  gentlemen ,  I am drunk . 	by the way ,  I don’t want anyone thinking I’m drunk . 
I am not drunk now . 	I’m not drunk . 
I can stand well enough ,  and I speak well enough . 	I can stand well enough ,  and I can speak just fine . 
excellent well ! 	yes ,  you’re speaking very well . 
why ,  very well then . 	yes ,  very well . 
you must not think then that I am drunk . 	so don’t think that I’m drunk . 
tis pity of him . 	It’s too bad . 
but is he often thus ? 	but is he often like this ? 
tis evermore the prologue to his sleep . 	he drinks like this every night before he goes to sleep . 
he’ll watch the horologe a double set If drink rock not his cradle . 	he’d stay up all night and all day if he didn’t drink himself to sleep . 
It were well The general were put in mind of it . 	the general should be informed about this . 
Is not this true ? 	don’t you think so ? 
and ’tis great pity that the noble Moor Should hazard such a place as his own second With one of an ingraft infirmity . 	and it’s too bad that the Moor chose a man with such a deep - rooted drinking problem as his second - in - command . 
It were an honest action to say So to the Moor . 	we should definitely say something to the Moor . 
tush ,  never tell me ! 	rubbish ! 
I take it much unkindly That thou ,  Iago ,  who hast had my purse As if the strings were thine ,  shouldst know of this . 	don’t tell me; I don’t like it at all That you ,  Iago ,  who has used my purse As if the strings were yours ,  should know about this . 
sblood ,  but you will not hear me . 	but you’re not listening to me . 
If ever I did dream of such a matter ,  Abhor me . 	If I ever dreamt about such a matter ,  Hate me . 
thou told'st me thou didst hold him in thy hate . 	you told me you hated him . 
despise me ,  if I do not . 	despise me ,  if I don’t . 
forsooth ,  a great arithmetician ,  One Michael Cassio ,  a Florentine A fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife That never set a squadron in the field ,  Nor the division of a battle knows More than a spinster; unless the bookish theoric ,  Where in the toga'd consuls can propose As masterly as he; mere prattle without practice ,  Is all his soldiership . 	truly ,  a great arithmetician ,  One Michael Cassio ,  a Florentine ,  A fellow almost damned in a having a beautiful wife; That has never led a squadron in the field ,  And doesn’t know the division of a battle any More than a spinster does ,  unless the theory books ,  In which the consuls wearing togas can propose a plan As masterly as he can . 
by heaven ,  I rather would have been his hangman . 	by heaven ,  I would rather have been his hangman . 
why ,  there's no remedy . 	why ,  there's no remedy; it is the curse of the military . 
tis the curse of service ,  Preferment goes by letter and affection ,  And not by old gradation ,  where each second Stood heir to the first . 	preference goes by who you know and who likes you ,  And not by old system ,  where each second person Took the first’s place . 
now ,  sir ,  be judge yourself Whether I in any just term am affined To love the Moor . 	now ,  sir ,  judge it for yourself Whether or I am better suited in any beautiful terms To love the Moor . 
I would not follow him then . 	I wouldn’t follow him then . 
you shall mark Many a duteous and kneecrooking knave ,  That doting on his own obsequious bondage Wears out his time ,  much like his master's ass ,  For naught but provender; and ,  when he's old ,  cashier'd . 	you shall see Many a duteous and knee - bending rogue That ,  doting on his own obedient slavery ,  Wears himself out ,  much like his master's ass ,  For nothing but dry oats; and when he's old ,  dismissed From the service . 
whip me such honest knaves . 	I would whip such honest rogues . 
others there are ,  Who ,  trimm'd in forms and visages of duty ,  Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves ,  And throwing but shows of service on their lords Do well thrive by them; and when they have lined their coats Do themselves homage . 	there are others who ,  dressed in uniforms and faces of duty ,  that keep their hearts attending on themselves; And ,  throwing only shows of service to their lords ,  Thrive well by them ,  and when they have lined their coats ,  Do themselves homage . 
these fellows have some soul ,  And such a one do I profess myself . 	these fellows have some soul; And someone like that is how I am . 
for ,  sir ,  It is as sure as you are Roderigo ,  Were I the Moor ,  I would not be Iago . 	because ,  sir ,  It is as sure as you are Roderigo ,  Were I the Moor ,  I would not be Iago . 
what a full fortune does the thicklips owe ,  If he can carry't thus ! 	what great luck the thick lips have ,  If he can get away with this ! 
though that his joy be joy ,  Yet throw such changes of vexation on't As it may lose some color . 	even if his joy is joy ,  Still throw such aggravation on it That he won’t stay happy for long . 
do; with like timorous accent and dire yell As when ,  by night and negligence ,  the fire Is spied in populous cities . 	go ahead; yell with frightening accent and distress As when a fire Is seen in big cities at night and by accident . 
what ,  ho ,  Brabantio ! 	what ,  ho ,  Brabantio ! 
signior Brabantio ,  ho ! 	signior Brabantio ,  ho ! 
awake ! 	awake ! 
what ,  ho ,  Brabantio ! 	what ,  ho ,  Brabantio ! 
thieves ! 	thieves ! 
thieves ! 	thieves ! 
thieves ! 	thieves ! 
look to your house ,  your daughter ,  and your bags ! 	look at your house ,  your daughter ,  and your bags ! 
thieves ! 	thieves ! 
thieves ! 	thieves ! 
what is the reason of this terrible summons ? 	what is the reason for this terrible summons ? 
what is the matter there ? 	what’s the matter there ? 
signior ,  is all your family within ? 	signior ,  is your family all inside ? 
are your doors lock'd ? 	are your doors locked ? 
arise ,  I say ! 	get up ,  I say . 
what ,  have you lost your wits ? 	what ,  have you lost your wits ? 
most reverend signior ,  do you know my voice ? 	very reverend Signior ,  do you know my voice ? 
what are you ? 	no ,  who are you ? 
my name is Roderigo . 	my name is Roderigo . 
the worser welcome . 	the worst welcome . 
I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors: In honest plainness thou hast heard me say My daughter is not for thee; and now ,  in madness , — Being full of supper and distempering draughts , — Upon malicious bravery ,  dost thou come To start my quiet . 	I have ordered you not to hang around my doors; In honest plainness ,  you have heard me say My daughter is not for you ,  and now ,  in madness ,  Being full of supper and drunk ,  You come ,  out of maliciousness To interrupt my sleep . 
sir ,  sir ,  sir— But thou must needs be sure My spirit and my place have in them power To make this bitter to thee . 	sir ,  sir ,  sir ,  But you must certainly be sure that My spirit and my place have power in them To make this bitter to you . 
patience ,  good sir . 	patience ,  good sir . 
what tell'st thou me of robbing ? 	why are you telling me about robbing ? 
this is Venice; My house is not a grange . 	this is Venice; My house is not a farm . 
most grave Brabantio ,  In simple and pure soul I come to you . 	very grave Brabantio ,  I come to you in simple and pure soul . 
zounds ,  sir ,  you are one of those that will not serve God ,  if the devil bid you . 	zounds ,  sir ,  you are one of those who wouldn’t serve God if the devil asked you to . 
because we come to do you service and you think we are ruffians ,  you'll have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse; you'll have your nephews neigh to you; you'll have coursers for cousins ,  and gennets for germans . 	because we are servants ,  and you think we are ruffians ,  you'd have your daughter covered with a African horse; you'd have your nephews neigh to you; you'd have chargers for cousins and small Spanish horses for Germans . 
what profane wretch art thou ? 	who the hell are you ? 
I am one ,  sir ,  that comes to tell you your daughter and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs . 	I am one ,  sir ,  that comes to tell you your daughter and the Moor are now making a Satan . 
thou art a villain . 	you are a villain . 
you are—a senator . 	you are a senator . 
sir ,  I will answer any thing . 	sir ,  I will answer anything . 
give me a taper ! 	give me a candle ! 
call up all my people ! 	wake up all my servants ! 
farewell ,  for I must leave you . 	farewell; because I must leave you . 
It seems not meet ,  nor wholesome to my place ,  To be produced—as ,  if I stay ,  I shall— Against the Moor . 	It doesn’t seem right or suitable to my position To be a witness (which I will be if I stay) ,  Against the Moor . 
for I do know ,  the state ,  However this may gall him with some check ,  Cannot with safety cast him; for he's embark'd With such loud reason to the Cyprus' wars ,  Which even now stands in act ,  that ,  for their souls ,  Another of his fathom they have none To lead their business; in which regard ,  Though I do hate him as I do hell - pains ,  Yet for necessity of present life ,  I must show out a flag and sign of love ,  Which is indeed but sign . 	because I know the government ,  No matter how angry this makes Brabantio with some Argument ,  cannot arrest him safely; because he's Embarked with such loud reason to the Cyprus wars ,  Which is being discussed even now ,  that ,  to save their Souls ,  they have no one of his depth To lead their armies ,  in which regard ,  Although I hate him as I hate hell pains ,  I must still show a flag and sign of love ,  To preserve my present life ,  Which is indeed only sign . 
that you shall surely find him ,  Lead to the Sagittary the raised search ,  And there will I be with him . 	so that you shall surely find him ,  lead these searchers to the Sagittary Inn ,  And I will be there with him . 
so farewell . 	so ,  farewell . 
how didst thou know 'twas she ? 	how did you know it was she ? 
raise all my kindred . 	get more Candles; Wake up all my relatives . 
are they married ,  think you ? 	do you think they’re married ? 
truly ,  I think they are . 	truly ,  I think they are . 
o heaven ! —How got she out ? 	how did she get out ? 
o treason of the blood ! 	o treason of the blood ! 
fathers ,  from hence trust not your daughters' minds By what you see them act . 	fathers ,  from now on don’t believe you can know your daughters' minds from the way you see them act . 
have you not read ,  Roderigo ,  Of some such thing ? 	haven’t you read ,  Roderigo ,  Of some such thing ? 
yes ,  sir ,  I have indeed . 	yes ,  sir ,  I have indeed . 
call up my brother . 	call my brother . 
do you know Where we may apprehend her and the Moor ? 	do you know Where we may catch her and the Moor ? 
I think I can discover him ,  if you please To get good guard ,  and go along with me . 	I think I can find him ,  if you’d please Get a good guard ,  and go along with me . 
pray you ,  lead on . 	I beg you ,  lead on . 
though in the trade of war I have slain men ,  Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience To do no contrived murder . 	although I have slain men during a war ,  I believe it is a grave matter of the conscience To do a premeditated murder . 
I lack iniquity Sometimes to do me service . 	I don’t have evil in me Sometimes to do me service . 
nine or ten times I had thought to have yerk'd him here under the ribs . 	nine or ten times I had thought to have stabbed him here under the ribs . 
tis better as it is . 	It is better as it is . 
nay ,  but he prated And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms Against your honor That ,  with the little godliness I have ,  I did full hard forbear him . 	no ,  but he chattered on ,  And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms Against your honor ,  That ,  with the little godliness I have ,  I worked hard to tolerate him . 
but I pray you ,  sir ,  Are you fast married ? 	but ,  I beg you ,  sir ,  Are you really married ? 
be assured of this ,  That the magnifico is much beloved ,  And hath in his effect a voice potential As double as the Duke's . 	be assured of this ,  That the magnifico is very popular; And has ,  in his office ,  a voice equal To twice the duke's . 
he will divorce you ,  Or put upon you what restraint and grievance The law ,  with all his might to enforce it on ,  Will give him cable . 	he will divorce you; Or apply to you what restraint and grievance The law will allow him to do ,  With all his might to do it . 
let him do his spite . 	let him do his worse . 
my services ,  which I have done the signiory ,  Shall out - tongue his complaints . 	my services that I have done for the signiory Shall out - shout his complaints . 
but ,  look ! 	but ,  look ! 
what lights come yond ? 	what lights are coming ? 
those are the raised father and his friends . 	those are the awakened father and his friends . 
you were best go in . 	you had better go in . 
Is it they ? 	Is it they ? 
by Janus ,  I think no . 	by Janus ,  I don’t think so . 
the goodness of the night upon you ,  friends ! 	the goodness of the night on you ,  friends ! 
what is the news ? 	what’s the news ? 
the Duke does greet you ,  general ,  And he requires your haste - post - haste appearance ,  Even on the instant . 	the duke greets you ,  general; And he requires your super - speedy appearance This instant . 
what is the matter ,  think you ? 	what’s the matter ,  do you think ? 
the galleys Have sent a dozen sequent messengers This very night at one another's heels; And many of the consuls ,  raised and met ,  Are at the Duke's already . 	the galleys Have sent a dozen sequential messengers This very night at one another's heels; And many of the consuls ,  awakened and meeting ,  Are at the duke's already . 
you have been hotly call'd for; When ,  being not at your lodging to be found ,  The Senate hath sent about three quests To search you out . 	you have been hotly called for; When ,  you weren’t found at your lodging ,  The senate sent about three different requests To search for you . 
tis well I am found by you . 	It is good that you found me . 
I will but spend a word here in the house And go with you . 	I will only say one more word here in the house ,  And I’ll go with you . 
ancient ,  what makes he here ? 	ensign ,  what is he doing here ? 
I do not understand . 	I don’t understand . 
he's married . 	he's married . 
to who ? 	to whom ? 
marry ,  to—Come ,  captain ,  will you go ? 	by Mary ,  to… Come ,  captain ,  will you go ? 
have with you . 	let’s go . 
here comes another troop to seek for you . 	here comes another group to see for you . 
It is Brabantio . —General ,  be advised; He comes to bad intent . 	general ,  be careful; He comes with bad intentions . 
holla ! 	stop ! 
stand there ! 	stop there ! 
signior ,  it is the Moor . 	signior ,  it is the Moor . 
you ,  Roderigo ! 	you ,  Roderigo ! 
come ,  sir ,  I am for you . 	come ,  sir ,  I will fight you . 
o thou foul thief ,  where hast thou stow'd my daughter ? 	o you foul thief ,  where have you hidden my daughter ? 
damn'd as thou art ,  thou hast enchanted her ,  For I'll refer me to all things of sense ,  If she in chains of magic were not bound ,  Whether a maid so tender ,  fair ,  and happy ,  So opposite to marriage that she shunn'd The wealthy ,  curled darlings of our nation ,  Would ever have ,  to incur a general mock ,  Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom Of such a thing as thou—to fear ,  not to delight . 	damned as you are ,  you have cast a spell on her; Because I'll restore myself to all things of sense ,  If she wasn’t bound in chains of magic ,  Would a maid so tender ,  beautiful ,  and happy ,  So opposed to marriage that she shunned The wealthy ,  curled darlings of our country ,  Would she ever have ,  to merit a public joke ,  Run from her father to the black bosom Of a thing such as you ,  to fear ,  not to delight in ? 
I therefore apprehend and do attach thee For an abuser of the world ,  a practicer Of arts inhibited and out of warrant . — Lay hold upon him . 	I therefore arrest and attack you As an abuser of the world ,  a practitioner Of the forbidden and illegal arts . 
If he do resist ,  Subdue him at his peril . 	If he resists ,  Subdue him at his peril . 
to prison; till fit time Of law and course of direct session ,  Call thee to answer . 	to prison until the right time Of law and course of justice Call you to answer . 
what if I do obey ? 	what if I obey ? 
how may the Duke be therewith satisfied ,  Whose messengers are here about my side ,  Upon some present business of the state To bring me to him ? 	how may the duke be satisfied with that ,  Whose messengers are here by my side ,  On some urgent business of the state ,  To bring me to him ? 
tis true ,  most worthy signior; The Duke's in council ,  and your noble self ,  I am sure ,  is sent for . 	It is true ,  very worthy Signior; The duke's in council ,  and your noble self ,  I am sure ,  is sent for . 
how ? 	what ! 
the Duke in council ? 	the duke in council ! 
the Duke himself ,  Or any of my brothers of the state ,  Cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own; For if such actions may have passage free ,  Bond - slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be . 	the duke himself ,  Or any of my brothers of the state ,  Can only feel this wrong as if it were their own; Because if such actions may have passage free ,  Bond slaves and pagans shall be our statesmen . 
there is no composition in these news That gives them credit . 	there is no written in this news That makes them believable . 
Indeed they are disproportion'd; My letters say a hundred and seven galleys . 	Indeed ,  they are out of proportion; My letters say a hundred and seven galleys . 
and mine ,  a hundred and forty . 	and mine a hundred and forty . 
and mine ,  two hundred . 	and mine two hundred . 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  ho ! 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  ho ! 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  ho ! 
a messenger from the galleys . 	a messenger from the galleys . 
now ,  what's the business ? 	now ,  what's the latest ? 
the Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes; So was I bid report here to the state By Signior Angelo . 	the Turkish armies are headed for Rhodes; So I was asked to report here to the state By Signior Angelo . 
how say you by this change ? 	what do you say about this change ? 
nay ,  in all confidence ,  he's not for Rhodes . 	no ,  in all confidence ,  the Turks are not going to Rhodes . 
here is more news . 	here is more news . 
the Ottomites ,  reverend and gracious ,  Steering with due course toward the isle of Rhodes ,  Have there injointed them with an after fleet . 	the Ottoman ,  reverend and gracious ,  Steering with due course toward the isle of Rhodes ,  Have joined a later fleet there with them . 
ay ,  so I thought . 	yes ,  so I thought . 
how many ,  as you guess ? 	how many ,  do you guess ? 
signior Montano ,  Your trusty and most valiant servitor ,  With his free duty recommends you thus ,  And prays you to believe him . 	signior Montano ,  Your trusty and very valiant servant ,  Salutes you like this ,  with his free duty ,  And begs you to believe him . 
tis certain then for Cyprus . 	It is certain ,  then ,  for Cyprus . 
marcus Luccicos ,  is not he in town ? 	marcus Luccicos ,  isn’t he in town ? 
he's now in Florence . 	he's now in Florence . 
write from us to him ,  postposthaste dispatch . 	write to him from us; send it very ,  very quickly . 
here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor . 	here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor . 
valiant Othello ,  we must straight employ you Against the general enemy Ottoman . 	valiant Othello ,  we must straight send you Against the general enemy Ottoman . 
I did not see you; welcome ,  gentle signior; We lack'd your counsel and your help tonight . 	I didn’t see you; welcome ,  gentle Signior; We missed your advice and your help tonight . 
so did I yours . 	and I missed yours . 
why ,  what's the matter ? 	why ,  what's the matter ? 
my daughter ! 	my daughter ! 
o ,  my daughter ! 	o ,  my daughter ! 
dead ? 	dead ? 
whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself And you of her ,  the bloody book of law You shall yourself read in the bitter letter After your own sense . 	whoever he is that ,  in this disgusting event ,  Has tricked your daughter of herself like this ,  And you of her ,  the bloody book of law You shall read yourself to the bitter letter of it As you see fit . 
humbly I thank your Grace . 	humbly I thank your grace . 
here is the man ,  this Moor; whom now ,  it seems ,  Your special mandate for the state affairs Hath hither brought . 	here is the man ,  this Moor; who now ,  it seems ,  Has been brought here by Your special mandate for the state affairs . 
we are very sorry for't . 	we are very sorry for it  . 
what in your own part can you say to this ? 	what ,  in your own part ,  can you say to this ? 
nothing ,  but this is so . 	nothing ,  but that this is so . 
most potent ,  grave ,  and reverend signiors ,  My very noble and approved good masters ,  That I have ta'en away this old man's daughter ,  It is most true; true ,  I have married her; The very head and front of my offending Hath this extent ,  no more . 	very potent ,  grave ,  and reverend signiors ,  My very noble and approved good masters ,  That I have taken away this old man's daughter ,  Is very true; true ,  I have married her . 
rude am I in my speech ,  And little blest with the soft phrase of peace; For since these arms of mine had seven years' pith ,  Till now some nine moons wasted ,  they have used Their dearest action in the tented field ,  And little of this great world can I speak ,  More than pertains to feats of broil and battle; And therefore little shall I grace my cause In speaking for myself . 	I don’t speak well ,  And I am little blessed with the soft phrase of peace Because ,  since these arms of mine were seven years' old ,  until now some nine months past ,  they have used Their dearest actions on the battlefield; And I can speak little of this great world ,  Only what relates to feats of war and battle; And therefore I shall grace my cause little By speaking for myself . 
yet ,  by your gracious patience ,  I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver Of my whole course of love: what drugs ,  what charms ,  What conjuration ,  and what mighty magic For such proceeding I am charged withal I won his daughter . 	yet ,  by your gracious patience ,  I will deliver a round truthful tale Of my whole course of love ,  by what drugs ,  what charms ,  What invocation ,  and what mighty magic ,  Because I am charged with such crimes ,  I won his daughter . 
a maiden never bold; Of spirit so still and quiet that her motion Blush'd at herself; and she—in spite of nature ,  Of years ,  of country ,  credit ,  everything— To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on ! 	a maiden never bold ,  Of a spirit so still and quiet that she blushed at her own Movements; and she ,  in spite of nature ,  Of years ,  of country ,  reputation ,  everything ,  To fall in love with what she feared to look at ! 
It is judgement maim'd and most imperfect ,  That will confess perfection so could err Against all rules of nature ,  I therefore vouch again ,  That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood ,  Or with some dram conjured to this effect ,  He wrought upon her . 	I therefore testify again ,  That he worked on her with some mixtures powerful over the blood ,  Or with some dram that produced this effect . 
to vouch this ,  is no proof ,  Without more certain and more overt test Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods Of modern seeming do prefer against him . 	to testify is not proof ,  Without wider and more open tests Than these thin habits and poor probabilities Of modern liking prefer against him . 
but ,  Othello ,  speak . 	but ,  Othello ,  speak . 
did you by indirect and forced courses Subdue and poison this young maid's affections ? 	did you ,  by indirect and forced methods ,  Subdue and poison this young maid's affections ? 
or came it by request ,  and such fair question As soul to soul affordeth ? 	or did she ask for them ,  with such a beautiful question As soul to soul allows ? 
fetch Desdemona hither . 	fetch Desdemona here . 
ancient ,  conduct them; you best know the place . 	ensign ,  go with them; you know the place best . 
and till she come ,  as truly as to heaven I do confess the vices of my blood ,  So justly to your grave ears I'll present How I did thrive in this fair lady's love And she in mine . 	and ,  until she comes ,  as truly as I confess the vices of my blood to heaven ,  So I'll present truthfully ,  to your hearing ,  How I thrived in this beautiful lady's love ,  And she in mine . 
say it ,  Othello . 	tell it ,  Othello . 
her father loved me ,  oft invited me ,  Still question'd me the story of my life From year to year ,  the battles ,  sieges ,  fortunes ,  That I have pass'd . 	her father loved me ,  often invited me; Still questioned me the story of my life ,  From year to year ,  the battles ,  sieges ,  fortunes ,  That I have been in . 
this to hear Would Desdemona seriously incline; But still the house affairs would draw her thence ,  Which ever as she could with haste dispatch ,  She'ld come again ,  and with a greedy ear Devour up my discourse; which I observing ,  Took once a pliant hour ,  and found good means To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart That I would all my pilgrimage dilate ,  Whereof by parcels she had something heard ,  But not intentively . 	to hear this ,  Desdemona would seriously listen ,  But still the house affairs would draw her away ,  Which she would finish in a great hurry ,  and She’d come again ,  and eat up my stories With a greedy ear ,  which I observing ,  Once I took a rare hour; and found good ways To draw a prayer of earnest enthusiasm from her So that I would lengthen all my stories ,  Which she had already heard bits and pieces of ,  But not all of them . 
I did consent ,  And often did beguile her of her tears When I did speak of some distressful stroke That my youth suffer'd . 	I agreed And often I cheated her of her tears ,  When I spoke of some distressful event I had suffered in my youth . 
this only is the witchcraft I have used . 	this is the only witchcraft I have used . 
here comes the lady; let her witness it . 	here comes the lady; let her verify it . 
I think this tale would win my daughter too . 	I think this tale would win my daughter too . 
my noble father ,  I do perceive here a divided duty . 	my noble father ,  I see a divided duty here . 
to you I am bound for life and education; My life and education both do learn me How to respect you; you are the lord of duty ,  I am hitherto your daughter . 	to you I am bound for my life and education; My life and education both teach me How to respect you; you are the lord of duty ,  I am therefore your daughter . 
but here's my husband ,  And so much duty as my mother show'd To you ,  preferring you before her father ,  So much I challenge that I may profess Due to the Moor ,  my lord . 	but here's my husband; And as much duty as my mother showed To you ,  preferring you before her father ,  So much I dispute that I may profess Due to the Moor ,  my lord . 
god be with you ! 	god be with you ! 
I have done . 	I’m done . 
for your sake ,  jewel ,  I am glad at soul I have no other child; For thy escape would teach me tyranny ,  To hang clogs on them . 	for your sake ,  jewel ,  I am glad at soul I have no other child ,  Because your escape would teach me tyranny ,  To hang logs on them . 
I have done ,  my lord . 	I’m done ,  my lord . 
let me speak like yourself ,  and lay a sentence Which ,  as a grise or step ,  may help these lovers Into your favor . 	let me speak as you would; and lay a sentence Which ,  as a grace or step ,  may help these lovers Into your favor . 
when remedies are past ,  the griefs are ended By seeing the worst ,  which late on hopes depended . 	when remedies are too late ,  griefs are ended By seeing the worst ,  which hopes lately depended on . 
to mourn a mischief that is past and gone Is the next way to draw new mischief on . 	to mourn mischief that is over and gone Is the next way to create new mischief . 
what cannot be preserved when fortune takes ,  Patience her injury a mockery makes . 	what cannot be preserved when fortune takes it ,  Patience makes a mockery of her injury . 
the robb'd that smiles steals something from the thief; He robs himself that spends a bootless grief . 	the victim that smiles steals something from the thief; He robs himself that spends a unprofitable grief . 
these sentences ,  to sugar or to gall ,  Being strong on both sides ,  are equivocal . 	these sentences ,  to sweetness or to bitterness ,  Being strong on both sides ,  are equal . 
I humbly beseech you ,  proceed to the affairs of state . 	I humbly beg you ,  proceed to the affairs of state . 
the Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for Cyprus . 	the Turk with very mighty preparation makes for Cyprus . 
othello ,  the fortitude of the place is best known to you; and though we have there a substitute of most allowed sufficiency ,  yet opinion ,  a sovereign mistress of effects ,  throws a more safer voice on you . 	othello ,  the strength of the place is best known to you; and although we have there a force that is more than adequate ,  yet public opinion ,  a sovereign mistress of effects ,  say we need a safer voice ,  like you . 
you must therefore be content to slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and boisterous expedition . 	you must therefore be content to conceal the gloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and violent expedition . 
the tyrant custom ,  most grave senators ,  Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war My thrice driven bed of down . 	the dictator ,  custom ,  very grave senators ,  Has made the stone and steel couch of war My feather bed three times . 
I do agnize A natural and prompt alacrity I find in hardness; and do undertake These present wars against the Ottomites . 	I recognize A natural and prompt speed that I find in hardness ,  and undertake These present wars against the Ottoman . 
most humbly therefore bending to your state ,  I crave fit disposition for my wife ,  Due reference of place and exhibition ,  With such accommodation and besort As levels with her breeding . 	very humbly ,  therefore ,  bowing to your state ,  I’d like proper provisions for my wife ,  Proper respect for housing and subsidy ,  With such accommodation and suitable company As is equal with her breeding . 
nor I . 	nor I . 
nor I .  I would not there reside To put my father in impatient thoughts By being in his eye . 	nor I .  I would not live there ,  To put my father into violent thoughts ,  By being always in his sight . 
most gracious Duke ,  To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear . 	very gracious duke ,  Listen with a gracious ear to my request ,  And let me find a contract in your voice To assist my simpleness . 
what would you ,  Desdemona ? 	what would you have ,  Desdemona ? 
that I did love the Moor to live with him ,  My downright violence and storm of fortunes May trumpet to the world . 	that I loved the Moor to live with him ,  My downright violence and storm of fortunes May shout to the world . 
so that ,  dear lords ,  if I be left behind ,  A moth of peace ,  and he go to the war ,  The rites for which I love him are bereft me ,  And I a heavy interim shall support By his dear absence . 	so much so ,  dear lords ,  if I am left behind ,  A moth of peace ,  and he goes to the war ,  The rites for which I love him I am deprived of ,  And I shall endure a sad interval caused By his dear absence . 
let me go with him . 	let me go with him . 
let her have your voices . 	let her have your votes . 
no ,  when lightwing'd toys Of feather'd Cupid seel with wanton dullness My speculative and officed instruments ,  That my disports corrupt and taint my business ,  Let housewives make a skillet of my helm ,  And all indign and base adversities Make head against my estimation ! 	no ,  when light - winged toys Of feathered Cupid blind my knowing and Usual instruments of sight with unruly dullness ,  That if my games corrupt and stain my work ,  Let housewives make a skillet of my helmet ,  And all indignities and base adversities Make a boil of my reputation ! 
tonight ,  my lord ? 	tonight ,  my lord ? 
this night . 	this night . 
with all my heart . 	with all my heart . 
at nine i' the morning here we'll meet again . 	at nine in the morning ,  we'll meet here again . 
othello ,  leave some officer behind ,  And he shall our commission bring to you; With such things else of quality and respect As doth import you . 	othello ,  leave some officer behind ,  And he shall bring our commission to you ,  With such things of quality and respect As are important to you . 
let it be so . 	let it be so . 
good night to everyone . 	good night to everyone . 
and ,  noble signior ,  If virtue no delighted beauty lack ,  Your son - in - law is far more fair than black . 	and ,  noble Signior ,  If virtue is missing delightful beauty ,  Your son - in - law is far more just than black . 
adieu ,  brave Moor ,  use Desdemona well . 	goodbye ,  brave Moor; be kind to Desdemona . 
my life upon her faith ! 	my life on her faith in me ! 
Iago ! 	Iago ? 
what say'st thou ,  noble heart ? 	what do you say ,  noble heart ? 
what will I do ,  thinkest thou ? 	what will I do ,  do you think ? 
why ,  go to bed and sleep . 	why ,  go to bed and sleep . 
I will incontinently drown myself . 	I will drown myself immediately . 
If thou dost ,  I shall never love thee after . 	If you do ,  I shall never love you after . 
why ,  thou silly gentleman ! 	why ,  you silly gentleman ! 
It is silliness to live when to live is torment ,  and then have we a prescription to die when death is our physician . 	It is silliness to live when to live is torment; and then we have a prescription to die when death is our physician . 
o villainous ! 	o villainous ! 
I have looked upon the world for four times seven years ,  and since I could distinguish betwixt a benefit and an injury ,  I never found man that knew how to love himself . 	I have looked on the world for twenty eight years ,  and since I could distinguish between a benefit and a disadvantage ,  I’ve never found man that knew how to love himself . 
ere I would say I would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen ,  I would change my humanity with a baboon . 	before I would say I would drown myself for the love of a chicken ,  I would exchange my humanity with a baboon . 
what should I do ? 	what should I do ? 
I confess it is my shame to be so fond ,  but it is not in my virtue to amend it . 	I confess it is my shame to be so crazy in love ,  but it is not in my virtue to fix it . 
virtue ? 	virtue ! 
a fig ! 	a fig ! 
tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus . 	It is in ourselves that we are like this or like that . 
If the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality ,  the blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most preposterous conclusions . 	If the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to balance another of sensuality ,  the blood and baseness of our natures would lead us to very preposterous conclusions . 
It cannot be . 	It cannot be . 
It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will . 	It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will . 
come ,  be a man ! 	come ,  be a man . 
drown thyself ? 	drown yourself ! 
drown cats and blind puppies ! 	drown cats and blind puppies . 
put money in thy purse; follow thou the wars; defeat thy favor with an usurped beard . 	put money in your purse; follow the wars; defeat your mood with an false beard; I say ,  put money in your purse . 
It was a violent commencement ,  and thou shalt see an answer -  able sequestration; put but money in thy purse . 	It had a violent beginning ,  and you shall see an answerable separation— put only money in your purse . —These Moors are changeable in their wills . 
these Moors are changeable in their wills:—fill thy purse with money . 	fill your purse with money . 
the food that to him now is as luscious as locusts ,  shall be to him shortly as acerb as the coloquintida . 	the food that is now as luscious as locusts to him shall be shortly be as bitter as the bitter apple drug . 
If thou wilt needs damn thyself ,  do it a more delicate way than drowning . 	If you must damn yourself ,  do it a more delicate way than drowning . 
a pox of drowning thyself ! 	a pox on drowning yourself ! 
It is clean out of the way . 	It is clean out of the way . 
seek thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and go without her . 	rather seek to be hanged in planning your joy than to be drowned and go without her . 
wilt thou be fast to my hopes ,  if I depend on the issue ? 	will you be committed to my hopes ,  if I depend on you ? 
I have told thee often ,  and I retell thee again and again ,  I hate the Moor . 	I have told you often ,  and I’ll tell you again and again ,  I hate the Moor . 
my cause is hearted; thine hath no less reason . 	my cause is fixed in my heart; yours has no less reason . 
let us be conjunctive in our revenge against him . 	let us be united in our revenge against him . 
If thou canst cuckold him ,  thou dost thyself a pleasure ,  me a sport . 	If you can get his wife ,  you do yourself a pleasure ,  me a sport . 
there are many events in the womb of time which will be delivered . 	there are many events in the womb of time which will be delivered . 
traverse ,  go ,  provide thy money . 	go ahead; go; provide your money . 
we will have more of this tomorrow . 	we will talk about this more of this tomorrow . 
adieu . 	goodbye . 
where shall we meet i' the morning ? 	where shall we meet in the morning ? 
at my lodging . 	at my lodging . 
I'll be with thee betimes . 	I'll be with you soon . 
go to ,  farewell . 	go to; farewell . 
do you hear ,  Roderigo ? 	do you hear me ,  Roderigo ? 
what say you ? 	what did you say ? 
no more of drowning ,  do you hear ? 	no more about drowning ,  do you hear ? 
thus do I ever make my fool my purse; For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane ,  If I would time expend with such a snipe But for my sport and profit . 	this is the way I ever make my fool my purse; Because I should abuse my own gained knowledge If I would waste time with such a fool Only for my sport and profit . 
I hate the Moor; And it is thought abroad that 'twixt my sheets He has done my office . 	I hate the Moor; And it is widely thought that he has done my job Between my sheets . 
I know not if't be true; But I for mere suspicion in that kind Will do as if for surety . 	I don’t know if it is true; But I will take it as a certainty just because of mere Suspicion in that way . 
he holds me well; The better shall my purpose work on him . 	he trusts me well ,  The better my plan will work on him . 
cassio's a proper man . 	cassio's a proper man . 
let me see now: To get his place ,  and to plume up my will In double knavery—How ,  how ? 	let me see now ,  To get his place ,  and to congratulate myself In double trickery ,  How ,  how ? 
he hath a person and a smooth dispose To be suspected; framed to make women false . 	he has a person ,  and a smooth disposition ,  To be suspected ,  framed to make women lie . 
the Moor is of a free and open nature ,  That thinks men honest that but seem to be so; And will as tenderly be led by the nose As asses are . 	the Moor is of a free and open nature ,  That thinks men are honest that only seem to be so; And will as tenderly be led by the nose As asses are . 
I have't . 	I have it ! 
It is engender'd . 	It is born . 
hell and night Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light . 	hell and night Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light . 
what from the cape can you discern at sea ? 	what can you discern at sea from the cape ? 
nothing at all . 	nothing at all . 
It is a highwrought flood; I cannot ,  'twixt the heaven and the main ,  Descry a sail . 	It is a very excited flood; I cannot ,  between the sky and the land ,  See a sail . 
what shall we hear of this ? 	what shall we hear of this ? 
If that the Turkish fleet Be not enshelter'd and embay'd ,  they are drown'd; It is impossible to bear it out . 	If the Turkish fleet is not Sheltered and in a bay ,  they are drowned; It is impossible to wait it out . 
news ,  lads ! 	news ,  lads ! 
our wars are done . 	our wars are over . 
how ? 	how ! 
Is this true ? 	Is this true ? 
I am glad on't; 'tis a worthy governor . 	I am glad of it . 
but this same Cassio ,  though he speak of comfort Touching the Turkish loss ,  yet he looks sadly And prays the Moor be safe; for they were parted With foul and violent tempest . 	he is a worthy governor But this same Cassio ,  although he speaks of comfort Touching the Turkish loss ,  he still looks sad ,  And prays the Moor is safe ,  because they were parted With an evil and violent tempest . 
pray heavens he be; For I have served him ,  and the man commands Like a full soldier . 	pray heavens he is ,  Because I have served him ,  and the man commands Like a full soldier . 
come ,  let's do so; For every minute is expectancy Of more arrivance . 	come ,  let's do so ,  Because every minute is to expect More arrival . 
thanks ,  you the valiant of this warlike isle ,  That so approve the Moor ! 	thank you ,  the valiant of this warlike isle ,  That so approve the Moor ! 
o ,  let the heavens Give him defense against the elements ,  For I have lost him on a dangerous sea . 	o ,  let the heavens Give him defense against the elements ,  Because I have lost him on a dangerous sea ! 
Is he well shipp'd ? 	does he have a good ship ? 
his bark is stoutly timber'd ,  and his pilot Of very expert and approved allowance; Therefore my hopes ,  not surfeited to death ,  Stand in bold cure . 	his ship is heavily timbered ,  and his captain is Very experienced and has a good reputation; Therefore my hopes ,  not excessively fed to death ,  Stand in heavy anxiety . 
a sail ,  a sail ,  a sail ! 	a sail ,  a sail ,  a sail ! 
what noise ? 	what noise ? 
the town is empty; on the brow o' the sea Stand ranks of people ,  and they cry ,   “ A sail !  ”  My hopes do shape him for the governor . 	the town is empty; on the seashore Ranks of people stand ,  and they cry ,   " A sail ! 
I pray you ,  sir ,  go forth ,  And give us truth who 'tis that is arrived . 	I beg you ,  sir ,  go outside ,  And give us truth about who it is that has arrived . 
I shall . 	I shall . 
but ,  good lieutenant ,  is your general wived ? 	but ,  good lieutenant ,  is your general married ? 
how now ! 	how now ! 
who has put in ? 	who has put in ? 
tis one Iago ,  ancient to the general . 	It is one Iago ,  ensign to the general . 
what is she ? 	who is she ? 
she that I spake of ,  our great captain's captain ,  Left in the conduct of the bold Iago; Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts A se'nnight's speed . 	she that I spoke of ,  our great captain's captain ,  Left in the company of the bold Iago ,  Whose footing here occurs earlier than the seven nights We thought it would take . 
great Jove ,  Othello guard ,  And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath ,  That he may bless this bay with his tall ship ,  Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms ,  Give renew'd fire to our extincted spirits ,  And bring all Cyprus comfort . 	great Jove ,  guard Othello ,  And swell his sail with your own powerful breath ,  That he may bless this bay with his tall ship ,  Make love's quick breaths in Desdemona's arms ,  Give renewed fire to our dead spirits ,  And bring all Cyprus comfort ! 
o ,  behold ,  The riches of the ship is come on shore ! 	o ,  behold ,  The riches of the ship is come on shore ! 
ye men of Cyprus ,  let her have your knees . 	you men of Cyprus ,  bend your knees . 
hail to thee ,  lady ! 	hall to you ,  lady ! 
and the grace of heaven ,  Before ,  behind thee ,  and on every hand ,  Enwheel thee round ! 	and the grace of heaven ,  Before you ,  behind you ,  and on every hand ,  Surround you ! 
I thank you ,  valiant Cassio . 	I thank you ,  valiant Cassio . 
what tidings can you tell me of my lord ? 	what news can you tell me of my lord ? 
he is not yet arrived; nor know I aught But that he's well and will be shortly here . 	he is not yet arrived and I don’t know anything Only that he's well ,  and will be here shortly . 
o ,  but I fear—How lost you company ? 	o ,  but I fear how lost you each other ? 
the great contention of the sea and skies Parted our fellowship—But ,  hark ! 	the great fight of the sea and skies Separated our fellowship . 
a sail . 	a sail . 
see for the news . 	look for the news . 
good ancient ,  you are welcome . 	good ensign ,  you are welcome . 
welcome ,  mistress . 	welcome ,  mistress . 
sir ,  would she give you so much of her lips As of her tongue she oft bestows on me ,  You'ld have enough . 	sir ,  I wish she would give you as much of her lips As she often gives me of her tongu .  ,  You'd have enough . 
alas ,  she has no speech . 	alas ,  she has nothing to say . 
In faith ,  too much; I find it still when I have list to sleep: Marry ,  before your ladyship ,  I grant She puts her tongue a little in her heart And chides with thinking . 	by Mary ,  before your ladyship ,  I grant ,  She puts her voice a little in her heart ,  And scolds by thinking . 
you have little cause to say so . 	you don’t have reasonto say so . 
o ,  fie upon thee ,  slanderer ! 	o ,  damn you ,  slanderer ! 
you shall not write my praise . 	you shall not write my praise . 
no ,  let me not . 	no ,  don’t let me . 
what wouldst thou write of me ,  if thou shouldst praise me ? 	what would you write about me ,  if you should praise me ? 
o gentle lady ,  do not put me to't; For I am nothing if not critical . 	o gentle lady ,  don’t ask me ,  Because I am nothing if not critical . 
ay ,  madam . 	yes ,  madam . 
I am not merry ,  but I do beguile The thing I am by seeming otherwise . 	I am not merry; but I cheat The thing I am by seeming otherwise . 
come ,  how wouldst thou praise me ? 	come ,  how would you praise me ? 
I am about it; but indeed my invention Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frieze; It plucks out brains and all . 	I am about it; but ,  indeed ,  my imagination Comes from my head as bird trap does from cloth ,  It plucks out brains and all . 
but my Muse labors ,  And thus she is deliver'd . 	but my inspiration works ,  And she is delivered like this . 
If she be fair and wise ,  fairness and wit ,  The one's for use ,  the other useth it . 	If she is beautiful and wise ,  beauty and wit ,  The one's for use ,  the other uses it . 
well praised ! 	well praised ! 
how if she be black and witty ? 	what if she is black and witty ? 
If she be black ,  and thereto have a wit ,  She'll find a white that shall her blackness fit . 	If she is black and also has a wit ,  She'll find a white that will her blackness fit . 
worse and worse . 	worse and worse . 
how if fair and foolish ? 	what if she is beautiful and foolish ? 
she never yet was foolish that was fair; For even her folly help'd her to an heir . 	she never was still foolish that was beautiful ,  Because even her folly helped her have an heir . 
these are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i' the alehouse . 	these are old wives’ tales to make fools laugh in the alehouse . 
what miserable praise hast thou for her that's foul and foolish ? 	what miserable praise have you for her that's ugly and foolish ? 
thou praisest the worst best . 	you praise the worst best . 
but what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed ,  one that in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself ? 	but what praise could you bestow on a deserving woman indeed ,  one that ,  in the authority of her merit ,  rightly wore the witnessing of very malice itself ? 
to suckle fools and chronicle small beer . 	to breastfeed fools and make a record of a little beer . 
o most lame and impotent conclusion ! 	o very lame and powerless conclusion ! 
do not learn of him ,  Emilia ,  though he be thy husband . 	don’t learn from him ,  Emilia ,  although he is your husband . 
how say you ,  Cassio ? 	what do you think ,  Cassio ? 
Is he not a most profane and liberal counselor ? 	Isn’t he a very unholy and rude counselor ? 
he speaks home ,  madam . 	he speaks freely ,  madam . 
you may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar . 	you may appreciate him more as a soldier than as a scholar . 
with as little a web as this will I ensnare as great a fly as Cassio . 	with a web as little as this ,  I’ll catch as big a fly as Cassio . 
ay ,  smile upon her ,  do; I will gyve thee in thine own courtship . 	yes ,  go ahead and smile on her; I will trap you in your own courtship . 
you say true; 'tis so ,  indeed . 	you speak truly; it is so ,  indeed . 
If such tricks as these strip you out of your lieutenantry ,  it had been better you had not kissed your three fingers so oft ,  which now again you are most apt to play the sir in . 	If such tricks as these strip you of your lieutenantry ,  it would’ve been better you hadn’t kissed your three fingers so often ,  with which you are again very ready to play the gent . 
an excellent courtesy ! 	an excellent courtesy ! 
tis so ,  indeed . 	it is so ,  indeed . 
yet again your fingers to your lips ? 	still your fingers to your lips again ? 
would they were clysterpipes for your sake ! 	I wish they were hypodermics for your sake ! 
the Moor ! 	the Moor ! 
I know his trumpet . 	I know his trumpet . 
tis truly so . 	It is truly so . 
let's meet him and receive him . 	let's meet him and greet him . 
lo ,  where he comes ! 	look ,  where he is coming ! 
o my fair warrior ! 	o my beautiful warrior ! 
my dear Othello ! 	my dear Othello ! 
It gives me wonder great as my content To see you here before me . 	It surprises me as much as my joy To see you here before me . 
o my soul's joy ! 	o my soul's joy ! 
If after every tempest come such calms ,  May the winds blow till they have waken'd death ! 	If ,  after every storm such calms come ,  May the winds blow until they have awakened death ! 
and let the laboring bark climb hills of seas Olympus high ,  and duck again as low As hell's from heaven ! 	and let the laboring ship climb hills of oceans As high as Olympus ,  and duck down again as low As hell is from heaven ! 
If it were now to die ,  'Twere now to be most happy; for I fear My soul hath her content so absolute That not another comfort like to this Succeeds in unknown fate . 	If I were to die now ,  I could die very happy; because ,  I’m afraid ,  My soul is so absolutely content ,  That no other comfort like this one Can follow unknown death . 
the heavens forbid But that our loves and comforts should increase ,  Even as our days do grow ! 	the heavens forbid anything But our loves and comforts should increase Even as our days grow long ! 
amen to that ,  sweet powers ! 	amen to that ,  sweet powers ! 
I cannot speak enough of this content; It stops me here; it is too much of joy: And this ,  and this ,  the greatest discords be They kiss . 	I cannot speak enough of this contentment; It stops me here; it is too joyful . 
o ,  you are well tuned now ! 	o ,  you are well tuned now ! 
but I'll set down the pegs that make this music ,  As honest as I am . 	but I'll tighten the strings that make this music ,  Until it’s as honest as I am . 
come ,  let us to the castle . 	come ,  let’s go to the castle . 
news ,  friends: our wars are done ,  the Turks are drown'd . 	news ,  friends; our wars are done ,  the Turks are drowned . 
honey ,  you shall be well desired in Cyprus; I have found great love amongst them . 	honey ,  Cyprus will be very glad to see you; I have found great love among them . 
o my sweet ,  I prattle out of fashion ,  and I dote In mine own comforts . 	o my sweet ,  I chit - chat unfashionably ,  and I talk foolishly About my own comforts . 
come ,  Desdemona ,  Once more well met at Cyprus . 	come ,  Desdemona ,  Once more happily brought to Cyprus . 
do thou meet me presently at the harbor . 	meet me right away at the harbor . 
come hither . 	come here . 
If thou be'st valiant—as they say base men being in love have then a nobility in their natures more than is native to them—list me . 	If you are valiant ,  as ,  they say ,  corrupt men being in love have a nobility in their natures that is more than natural to them ,  listen to me . 
the lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard . 	the lieutenant is part of the court’s guard tonight . 
first ,  I must tell thee this: Desdemona is directly in love with him . 	first ,  I must tell you this Desdemona is directly in love with him . 
with him ? 	with him ! 
why ,  'tis not possible . 	why ,  it is not possible . 
lay thy finger thus ,  and let thy soul be instructed . 	lay your finger like this ,  and let your soul be instructed . 
mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor ,  but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies . 	watch with what violence she first loved the Moor ,  but with his bragging ,  and telling her fantastic lies . 
and will she love him still for prating ? 	will she still love him for chattering ? 
let not thy discreet heart think it . 	don’t your discreet heart think it . 
her eye must be fed; and what delight shall she have to look on the devil ? 	her eye must be fed ,  and what joy will she have to look on the devil ? 
when the blood is made dull with the act of sport ,  there should be ,  again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite ,  loveliness in favor ,  sympathy in years ,  manners ,  and beauties; all which the Moor is defec -  tive in . 	when the blood is made calm with playing ,  there should be something to fire it up again and to satisfy a fresh appetite ,  loveliness in favor; sympathy in years ,  manners ,  and beauties ,  all which the Moor lacks . 
now sir ,  this granted—as it is a most pregnant and unforced position—who stands so eminently in the degree of this fortune as Cassio does ? 	now sir ,  this done ,  as it is a very compelling and natural position ,  who is outstanding and first in the degree of this luck as Cassio is ? 
a knave very voluble; no further conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane seeming ,  for the better com -  passing of his salt and most hidden loose affection ? 	a very changeable rogue ,  having no further conscience than assuming the mere form of civil and humane behavior ,  for the better measure of his worth and very hidden loose affections ? 
I cannot believe that in her; she's full of most blest condition . 	I cannot believe that in her; she is full of very blessed qualities . 
blest fig'send ! 	blessed my foot ! 
the wine she drinks is made of grapes . 	she drinks wine just like everyone else . 
If she had been blest ,  she would never have loved the Moor . 	If she had been blessed ,  she would never have loved the Moor . 
blest pudding ! 	blessed pudding ! 
didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand ? 	didn’t you see her play with the palm of his hand ? 
didst not mark that ? 	didn’t you see that ? 
yes ,  that I did; but that was but courtesy . 	yes ,  I did; but she was only being polite . 
lechery ,  by this hand; an index and obscure prologue to the history of lust and foul thoughts . 	I swear it’s a habitual lust ,  a list and hidden opening to the history of lust and evil thoughts . 
they met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together . 	they came so close with their lips that their breaths hugged each other . 
villainous thoughts ,  Roderigo ! 	villainous thoughts ,  Roderigo ! 
when these mutualities so marshal the way ,  hard at hand comes the master and main exercise ,  the incorporate conclusion . 	when these mutual things lead the way ,  the teacher and the main exercise follow close behind ,  to the obvious conclusion . 
pish ! 	piss off ! 
but ,  sir ,  be you ruled by me . 	but ,  sir ,  Take my advice . 
I have brought you from Venice . 	I have brought you from Venice . 
cassio knows you not . 	cassio doesn’t know you . 
I'll not be far from you . 	I won’t be far from you . 
do you find some occasion to anger Cassio ,  either by speaking too loud ,  or tainting his discipline ,  or from what other course you please ,  which the time shall more favorably minister . 	find some occasion to make Cassio angry ,  either by speaking too loud ,  or insulting his discipline ,  or from whatever reason you please ,  which might be suggested by what’s happening at the time . 
provoke him ,  that he may; for even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny ,  whose qual -  ification shall come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio . 	provoke him so that he will; because even out of that ,  I will make these men of Cyprus rebel ,  whose character won’t come back to their original calmness unless Cassio is replaced . 
so shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means I shall then have to prefer them ,  and the impediment most profitably removed ,  with -  out the which there were no expectation of our prosperity . 	so you shall have a shorter journey to your desires by the means I would now have to advance them; and the impediment very profitably removed ,  without which we couldn’t expect to succeed . 
I warrant thee . 	I guarantee you . 
meet me by and by at the citadel . 	meet me later at the fortress . 
I must fetch his necessaries ashore . 	I must get his belongings ashore . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
adieu . 	goodbye . 
It is Othello's pleasure ,  our noble and valiant general ,  that upon certain tidings now arrived ,  importing the mere perdition of the Turkish fleet ,  every man put himself into triumph; some to dance ,  some to make bonfires ,  each man to what sport and revels his addiction leads him; for besides these beneficial news ,  it is the celebration of his nuptial . 	It is Othello's pleasure ,  our noble and valiant general ,  that on certain news now arrived ,  concerning the mere total destruction of the Turkish fleet ,  every man rejoice ,  some to dance ,  some to make bonfires ,  each man to whatever sport and revels his disposition leads him ,  because ,  besides this good news ,  it is the celebration of his wedding . 
so much was his pleasure should be proclaimed . 	his pleasure should be proclaimed this much . 
all offices are open ,  and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the bell have told eleven . 	all offices are open ,  and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five until the clock rings eleven . 
heaven bless the isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello ! 	heaven bless the isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello ! 
Iago hath direction what to do; But notwithstanding ,  with my personal eye Will I look to't . 	Iago has orders on what to do; But ,  nevertheless ,  with my own eyes I will look to it myself . 
Iago is most honest . 	Iago is very honest . 
michael ,  good night . 	michael ,  good night . 
tomorrow with your earliest Let me have speech with you . 	tomorrow  , at your earliest ,  Let me speak with you . 
come ,  my dear love ,  The purchase made ,  the fruits are to ensue; That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you . 	come ,  my dear love ,  The purchase made ,  the fruits are to follow ,  That profit is still to come between me and you . 
good night . 	good - night . 
welcome ,  Iago; we must to the watch . 	welcome ,  Iago; we must go to the guard . 
not this hour ,  lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the clock . 	not this hour ,  lieutenant; it is not yet ten of the clock . 
our general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona; who let us not therefore blame . 	our general put us early like this for the love of his Desdemona ,  whom we won’t blame . 
he hath not yet made wan -  ton the night with her ,  and she is sport for Jove . 	he hasn’t yet spent the wedding night with her; and she is joy for the gods . 
she's a most exquisite lady . 	she's a very exquisite lady . 
and ,  I'll warrant her ,  full of game . 	and ,  I'll guarantee that she is full of game . 
Indeed she's a most fresh and delicate creature . 	Indeed ,  she is a very fresh and delicate creature . 
what an eye she has ! 	what an eye she has ! 
methinks it sounds a parley to provocation . 	I think it looks like an invitation to excitement . 
an inviting eye; and yet methinks right modest . 	an inviting eye ,  and still I think it is properly modest . 
and when she speaks ,  is it not an alarum to love ? 	and when she speaks ,  isn’t it a call to love ? 
she is indeed perfection . 	she is ,  indeed ,  perfection . 
well ,  happiness to their sheets ! 	well ,  happiness to their sheets ! 
come ,  lieutenant ,  I have a stoup of wine ,  and here without are a brace of Cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to the health of black Othello . 	come ,  lieutenant ,  I have a bottle of wine; and here outside are a number of Cyprus gents that would happily drink a round to the health of black Othello . 
I could well wish courtesy would invent some other custom of entertainment . 	I could really wish manners would invent some other kind of entertainment . 
o ,  they are our friends ! 	o ,  they are our friends ,  only one cup . 
but one cup; I'll drink for you . 	I'll drink for you . 
I have drunk but one cup tonight ,  and that was craftily qualified too ,  and behold what innovation it makes here . 	I have drunk but one cup tonight ,  and that was craftily diluted too ,  and behold ,  what changes it makes here . 
I am unfortunate in the infirmity ,  and dare not task my weakness with any more . 	I am unfortunate in the handicap ,  and dare not tempt my weakness with any more wine . 
what ,  man ! 	what ,  man ! 
where are they ? 	where are they ? 
here at the door; I pray you ,  call them in . 	here at the door; I beg you ,  call them in . 
I'll do't ,  but it dislikes me . 	I'll do it ,  but it doesn’t like me . 
If I can fasten but one cup upon him ,  With that which he hath drunk tonight already ,  He'll be as full of quarrel and offense As my young mistress' dog . 	If I can get him to drink only one cup ,  With the one he’s already drunk tonight ,  He'll be as full of fighting and insults As my young mistress' dog . 
now ,  'mongst this flock of drunkards ,  Am I to put our Cassio in some action That may offend the isle . 	now ,  among this flock of drunkards ,  I am make our Cassio do some action That may offend the isle . 
some wine ,  ho ! 	some wine ,  ho ! 
and let me the canakin clink ,  clink; [Sings . 	and let me the small drink clink ,  clink; And let me the small drink clink . 
fore God ,  an excellent song . 	before God ,  an excellent song . 
I learned it in England ,  where indeed they are most potent in potting . 	I learned it in England ,  where ,  indeed ,  they are very powerful drinkers . 
Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking ? 	Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking ? 
why ,  he drinks you with facility your Dane dead drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your Almain; he gives your Hollander a vomit ere the next pottle can be filled . 	why ,  he drinks your Dane dead drunk easily; he doesn’t even sweat to defeat your German; he makes your Hollander vomit before the next round can be poured . 
to the health of our general ! 	to the health of our general ! 
king Stephen was a worthy peer ,  His breeches cost him but a crown; He held them sixpence all too dear ,  With that he call'd the tailor lown . 	king Stephen was a worthy peer ,  His breeches only cost him a dollar; He held them six cents all too expensive ,  With that he called the calm tailor . 
will you hear't again ? 	will you hear it again ? 
It's true ,  good lieutenant . 	It's true ,  good lieutenant . 
for mine own part—no offense to the general ,  nor any man of quality—I hope to be saved . 	for my own part ,  no offense to the general ,  nor any man of quality ,  I hope to be saved . 
and so do I too ,  lieutenant . 	and so do I too ,  lieutenant . 
let's have no more of this; let's to our affairs . 	let's have no more of this; let's to our affairs . 
god forgive us our sins ! 	forgive us our sins ! 
gentlemen ,  let's look to our business . 	gentlemen ,  let's look to our business . 
I am not drunk now; I can stand well enough ,  and I speak well enough . 	I am not drunk now; I can stand well enough ,  and I speak well enough . 
excellent well . 	excellent well . 
and do but see his vice; 'Tis to his virtue a just equinox ,  The one as long as the other . 	and don’t only see his vice; It is a proper contradiction to his virtue ,  The one is as long as the other . 
tis pity of him . 	It ‘s a pity of him . 
I fear the trust Othello puts him in On some odd time of his infirmity Will shake this island . 	I fear the trust Othello puts him in ,  because At some odd time of his infirmity ,  he Will shake this island . 
but is he often thus ? 	but is he often like this ? 
tis evermore the prologue to his sleep; He'll watch the horologe a double set ,  If drink rock not his cradle . 	he'll watch the clock all night If drink doesn’t rock his cradle . 
It were well The general were put in mind of it . 	It would be good To let the general know about it . 
how now ,  Roderigo ! 	hey ,  Roderigo ! 
I pray you ,  after the lieutenant; go . 	I pray you ,  go after the lieutenant . 
what noise ? 	what’s that noise ? 
you rogue ! 	you rogue ! 
you rascal ! 	you rascal ! 
what's the matter ,  lieutenant ? 	what's the matter ,  lieutenant ? 
a knave teach me my duty ! 	a rogue teaching me my duty ! 
but I'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle . 	I'll beat the rogue into a wicker bottle . 
beat me ! 	beat me ! 
nay ,  good lieutenant; I pray you ,  sir ,  hold your hand . 	no ,  good lieutenant; I beg you ,  sir ,  stop . 
let me go ,  sir ,  or I'll knock you o'er the mazzard . 	let me go ,  sir ,  or I'll knock you over the head . 
come ,  come ,  you're drunk . 	come on ,  come on ,  you're drunk . 
drunk ! 	drunk ! 
what is the matter here ? 	what is the matter here ? 
zounds ,  I bleed still; I am hurt to the death . 	zounds ,  I bleed still; I am hurt to the death . 
hold ,  for your lives ! 	hold ,  for your lives ! 
hold ,  ho ! —Lieutenant—sir—Montano—gentlemen— Have you forgot all place of sense and duty ? 	lieutenant ,  -  - sir ,  -  - Montano ,  -  - gentlemen ,  -  -  Have you forgot all place of sense and duty ? 
hold ! 	hold ! 
why ,  how now ,  ho ! 	why ,  how now ,  ho ! 
from whence ariseth this ? 	what started this ? 
are we turn'd Turks ,  and to ourselves do that Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites ? 	have we turned to Turks ,  and do to ourselves What Heaven has forbidden the Ottoman ? 
what is the matter ,  masters ? 	what is the matter ,  gentlemen ? 
honest Iago ,  that look'st dead with grieving ,  Speak ,  who began this ? 	honest Iago ,  looking dead with grieving ,  Speak ,  who began this ? 
how comes it ,  Michael ,  you are thus forgot ? 	how is it ,  Michael ,  that you have forgotten yourself ? 
I pray you ,  pardon me; I cannot speak . 	I beg you ,  pardon me; I cannot speak . 
worthy Montano ,  you were wont be civil; The gravity and stillness of your youth The world hath noted ,  and your name is great In mouths of wisest censure . 	worthy Montano ,  you were inclined to be civil; The world has marked he gravity and stillness of your youth and your name is great In mouths of wisest respect . 
what's the matter ,  That you unlace your reputation thus ,  And spend your rich opinion for the name Of a nightbrawler ? 	what's the matter ,  That you destroy your reputation like this ,  And waste your reputation for the name Of a night - brawler ? 
give me answer to it . 	answer me . 
nor know I aught By me that's said or done amiss this night; Unless self - charity be sometimes a vice ,  And to defend ourselves it be a sin When violence assails us . 	I don’t know anything That I said or did wrong this night ,  Unless self - love is sometimes a vice ,  And to defend ourselves is a sin When we are attacked violently . 
now ,  by heaven ,  My blood begins my safer guides to rule ,  And passion ,  having my best judgement collied ,  Assays to lead the way . 	now ,  by heaven ,  My blood begins to rule my safer sense ,  And passion ,  having influenced my better judgment Tries to lead the way . 
If I once stir ,  Or do but lift this arm ,  the best of you Shall sink in my rebuke . 	If I once get angry ,  And only lift this arm ,  the best of you Shall sink in my scolding . 
give me to know How this foul rout began ,  who set it on ,  And he that is approved in this offense ,  Though he had twinn'd with me ,  both at a birth ,  Shall lose me . 	let me know How this nasty fight began ,  who started it ,  And he that is guilty of this offense ,  Even if he is my twin brother ,  both born at the same time ,  He’ll be finished with me . 
what ! 	what ! 
in a town of war ,  Yet wild ,  the people's hearts brimful of fear ,  To manage private and domestic quarrel ,  In night ,  and on the court and guard of safety ! 	In a town of war Still waging ,  the people's hearts brimful of fear ,  To control private and domestic quarrels ,  At night ,  and on the court and guard of safety ! 
tis monstrous . 	It is monstrous . 
Iago ,  who began't ? 	Iago ,  who started it  ? 
If partially affined ,  or leagued in office ,  Thou dost deliver more or less than truth ,  Thou art no soldier . 	If partially connected or together in office ,  You deliver more or less than truth ,  You are no soldier . 
touch me not so near: I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth Than it should do offense to Michael Cassio; Yet ,  I persuade myself ,  to speak the truth Shall nothing wrong him . 	I’d rather have this tongue cut from my mouth Than it should do offense to Michael Cassio; Still ,  I convince myself ,  speaking the truth Shall not wrong him . 
thus it is ,  general . 	It’s like this ,  general . 
montano and myself being in speech ,  There comes a fellow crying out for help ,  And Cassio following him with determined sword ,  To execute upon him . 	montano and myself were talking ,  and There comes a fellow crying out for help ,  With Cassio following him with determined sword ,  To kill him . 
he ,  swift of foot ,  Outran my purpose; and I return'd the rather For that I heard the clink and fall of swords ,  And Cassio high in oath ,  which till tonight I ne'er might say before . 	he ,  fast of foot ,  Outran me; and I returned Because that I heard the clink and fall of swords ,  And Cassio swearing loudly; which ,  until tonight ,  I never saw him do before . 
when I came back— For this was brief —I found them close together ,  At blow and thrust ,  even as again they were When you yourself did part them . 	when I came back ,  For this was brief ,  -  - I found them close together ,  Everyone was fighting ,  even as again they were When you yourself parted them . 
more of this matter cannot I report . 	I can’t report more of this matter ,  But men are men; the best sometimes forget themselves . 
but men are men; the best sometimes forget: Though Cassio did some little wrong to him ,  As men in rage strike those that wish them best ,  Yet surely Cassio ,  I believe ,  received From him that fled some strange indignity ,  Which patience could not pass . 	though Cassio did only little wrong to him ,  As men in rage strike those that wish them best ,  Yet surely Cassio ,  I believe ,  received Some strange insult From him that fled ,  Which patience could not let him get away with . 
I know ,  Iago ,  Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter ,  Making it light to Cassio . 	I know ,  Iago ,  Your honesty and love minimize this matter ,  Making it easier for Cassio . 
cassio ,  I love thee; But never more be officer of mine . 	cassio ,  I love you; But never more be an officer of mine . 
look ,  if my gentle love be not raised up ! 	look ,  my gentle love is awakened ! 
I'll make thee an example . 	I'll make you an example . 
what's the matter ? 	what's the matter ? 
all's well now ,  sweeting; come away to bed . 	all's well now ,  sweetheart; come away to bed . 
sir ,  for your hurts ,  myself will be your surgeon . 	sir ,  for your hurts ,  I myself will be your surgeon . 
lead him off . 	take him away . 
Iago ,  look with care about the town ,  And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted . 	Iago ,  look carefully about the town ,  And silence those whom this vile brawl has upset . 
what ,  are you hurt ,  lieutenant ? 	what ,  are you hurt ,  lieutenant ? 
ay ,  past all surgery . 	yes ,  beyond all cures . 
marry ,  heaven forbid ! 	by Mary ,  heaven forbid ! 
reputation ,  reputation ,  reputation ! 	reputation ,  reputation ,  reputation ! 
o ,  I have lost my reputation ! 	o ,  I have lost my reputation ! 
I have lost the immortal part of myself ,  and what remains is bestial . 	I have lost the immortal part of myself ,  and what remains is beastly . 
my reputation ,  Iago ,  my reputation ! 	my reputation ,  Iago ,  my reputation ! 
as I am an honest man ,  I thought you had received some bodily wound; there is more sense in that than in reputa -  tion . 	as I am an honest man ,  I thought you had received some bodily wound; there is more sense in that than in reputation . 
reputation is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without merit and lost without deserving . 	reputation is an idle and very false burden ,  often got without merit and lost without being deserved . 
you have lost no reputation at all ,  unless you repute yourself such a loser . 	you have lost no reputation at all ,  unless you believe yourself to be such a loser . 
what ,  man ! 	what ,  man ! 
there are ways to recover the general again . 	there are ways to regain the general again . 
you are but now cast in his mood ,  a punishment more in policy than in malice; even so as one would beat his offenseless dog to affright an imperious lion . 	you are now only fallen in his mood ,  a punishment more in policy than in malice; even as some one would beat his defenseless dog to scare an imperious lion . 
sue to him again ,  and he's yours . 	talk to him again ,  and he’ll like you again . 
I will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight ,  so drunken ,  and so indiscreet an officer . 	I will rather seek to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight ,  so drunken ,  and so indiscreet an officer . 
drunk ? 	drunk ? 
and speak parrot ? 	and talk like a parrot ? 
and squabble ? 	and squabble ? 
swagger ? 	swagger ? 
swear ? 	swear ? 
and discourse fustian with one's own shadow ? 	and pick a fight with my own shadow ? 
o thou invisible spirit of wine ,  if thou hast no name to be known by ,  let us call thee devil ! 	o you invisible spirit of wine ,  if you don’t have a name to be known by ,  let’s call you devil ! 
what was he that you followed with your sword ? 	who were you following with your sword ? 
what had he done to you ? 	what had he done to you ? 
I know not . 	I don’t know . 
Is't possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
I remember a mass of things ,  but nothing distinctly; a quarrel ,  but nothing wherefore . 	I remember a lot ,  but nothing clearly ,  a quarrel ,  but not why . 
o God ,  that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains ! 	o God ,  that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains ! 
that we should ,  with joy ,  pleasance ,  revel ,  and applause ,  transform ourselves into beasts ! 	that we should ,  with joy ,  pleasure ,  partying ,  and applause ,  transform ourselves into beasts ! 
why ,  but you are now well enough . 	why ,  you’re sober enough now . 
how came you thus recovered ? 	how did you get this sober ? 
come ,  you are too severe a moraler . 	come ,  you are too moral . 
as the time ,  the place ,  and the condition of this country stands ,  I could heartily wish this had not befallen; but since it is as it is ,  mend it for your own good . 	as the time ,  the place ,  and the condition of this country stands ,  I could heartily wish this had not happen ,  but since it is what it is ,  fix it for your own good . 
I will ask him for my place again; he shall tell me I am a drunkard ! 	I’ll ask him for my job back; he’ll tell me I am a drunkard ! 
had I as many mouths as Hydra ,  such an answer would stop them all . 	If I had as many mouths as a seven - headed goddess ,  such an answer would shut them all . 
to be now a sensible man ,  by and by a fool ,  and presently a beast ! 	now I’m a sensible man ,  soon a fool ,  and now a beast ! 
o strange ! 	o strange ! 
every inordinate cup is unblest ,  and the ingredient is a devil . 	every uncontrolled cup is evil ,  and the ingredient is a devil . 
come ,  come ,  good wine is a good familiar creature ,  if it be well used . 	come ,  come ,  good wine is a good familiar creature ,  if it is well used . 
exclaim no more against it . 	say no more against it . 
and ,  good lieutenant ,  I think you think I love you . 	and ,  good lieutenant ,  I think you think I love you . 
I have well approved it ,  sir . 	I have well proven it ,  sir . 
I drunk ! 	I got drunk ! 
you or any man living may be drunk at some time ,  man . 	you ,  or any man living ,  may be drunk at a time ,  man . 
I'll tell you what you shall do . 	I'll tell you what you shall do . 
confess yourself freely to her; importune her help to put you in your place again . 	freely tell her the truth; beg her help to put you in your place again . 
she is of so free ,  so kind ,  so apt ,  so blessed a disposition ,  she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested . 	she is so free ,  so kind ,  so proper ,  so blessed a disposition ,  she holds it a sin in her goodness not to do more than she is asked . 
this broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter; and ,  my fortunes against any lay worth naming ,  this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before . 	beg her to fix this broken joint between you and her husband ,  and ,  I’ll bet against any thing worth naming ,  this crack in your love shall grow stronger than it was before . 
you advise me well . 	you advise me well . 
I protest ,  in the sincerity of love and honest kindness . 	no ,  only in the sincerity of love and honest kindness . 
you are in the right . 	you are right . 
good night ,  lieutenant ,  I must to the watch . 	good - night ,  lieutenant; I must get going to the guard . 
good night ,  honest Iago . 	good night ,  honest Iago . 
and what's he then that says I play the villain ? 	and who’s he ,  then ,  that says I play the villain ? 
when this advice is free I give and honest ,  Probal to thinking ,  and indeed the course To win the Moor again ? 	when this advice I give is free and honest ,  Calculated to his thinking ,  and ,  indeed ,  the way To win the Moor again ? 
for 'tis most easy The inclining Desdemona to subdue In any honest suit . 	because it is very easy To involve the listening Desdemona In any honest pursuit . 
she's framed as fruitful As the free elements . 	she's been made as fruitful As the free elements . 
and then for her To win the Moor ,  were't to renounce his baptism ,  All seals and symbols of redeemed sin ,  His soul is so enfetter'd to her love ,  That she may make ,  unmake ,  do what she list ,  Even as her appetite shall play the god With his weak function . 	and then for her To win the Moor ,  if it meant renouncing his own baptism ,  All seals and symbols of forgiveness ,  His soul is so chained to her love That she may make ,  unmake ,  do whatever she wants ,  Even as her wishes shall play the god With his weak ability to think . 
how am I then a villain To counsel Cassio to this parallel course ,  Directly to his good ? 	how am I ,  then ,  a villain To advise Cassio to this parallel course ,  Directly to his good ? 
divinity of hell ! 	divinity of hell ! 
so will I turn her virtue into pitch ,  And out of her own goodness make the net That shall enmesh them all . 	so I will turn her virtue into black tar ,  And out of her own goodness make the net That shall tangle them all up . 
how now ,  Roderigo ! 	what’s up ,  Roderigo ! 
I do follow here in the chase ,  not like a hound that hunts ,  but one that fills up the cry . 	I followed you here in the chase ,  not like a hound that hunts ,  but like the hunted by the hound . 
how poor are they that have not patience ! 	how poor are they who have no patience ! 
what wound did ever heal but by degrees ? 	what wound ever healed except bit by bit ? 
thou know'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft ,  And wit depends on dilatory time . 	you know we work by wit and not by witchcraft; And wit depends on slow time . 
does't not go well ? 	doesn’t it go well ? 
by the mass ,  'tis morning; Pleasure and action make the hours seem short . 	by the mass ,  it is morning; Pleasure and work make the hours seem short . 
retire thee; go where thou art billeted: Away ,  I say . 	go get some sleep; go where you are staying . 
thou shalt know more hereafter: Nay ,  get thee gone . 	get going ,  I say; you shall know more later; No ,  get going . 
masters ,  play here ,  I will content your pains; Something that's brief; and bid  “ Good morrow ,  general .  ”  Why ,  masters ,  have your instruments been in Naples ,  that they speak i' the nose thus ? 	gentlemen ,  play here ,  I will reward your pains ,  Something that's brief and say ,   “ Good morning ,  General .  ”  Hey ,  fellows ,  have your instruments been in Naples ,  that they sound as horrible as like this ? 
how ,  sir ,  how ? 	what ,  sir ,  how ! 
are these ,  I pray you ,  wind instruments ? 	are these ,  I beg you ,  wind instruments ? 
ay ,  marry ,  are they ,  sir . 	yes ,  by Mary ,  they are ,  sir . 
whereby hangs a tale ,  sir ? 	what  “ half the story ,  ”  sir ? 
marry ,  sir . 	by Mary ,  sir ,  by many a wind instrument that I know . 
well ,  sir ,  we will not . 	well ,  sir ,  we won’t . 
we have none such ,  sir . 	we don’t have any ,  sir . 
then put up your pipes in your bag ,  for I'll away . 	then put your pipes away in your bag ,  because I'm leaving . 
dost thou hear ,  my honest friend ? 	did you hear ,  my honest friend ? 
no ,  I hear not your honest friend; I hear you . 	no ,  I don’t hear your honest friend; I hear you . 
prithee ,  keep up thy quillets . 	I beg you ,  keep up your jokes . 
there's a poor piece of gold for thee . 	there's a poor piece of gold for you . 
If the gentlewoman that attends the general's wife be stirring ,  tell her there's one Cassio entreats her a little favor of speech . 	If the gentlewoman that attends the general's wife is awake ,  tell her there's one Cassio begs a little favor of speaking with her . 
wilt thou do this ? 	will you do this ? 
do ,  good my friend . 	do ,  my good friend . 
In happy time ,  Iago . 	good to see you ,  Iago . 
you have not been abed ,  then ? 	you have not been to bed then ? 
why ,  no; the day had broke Before we parted . 	why ,  no; the day dawned Before we parted . 
I have made bold ,  Iago ,  To send in to your wife . 	I have made bold ,  Iago ,  To send for your wife . 
my suit to her Is that she will to virtuous Desdemona Procure me some access . 	my request to her Is ,  that she will manage to get me access To virtuous Desdemona . 
I'll send her to you presently; And I'll devise a mean to draw the Moor Out of the way ,  that your converse and business May be more free . 	I'll send her to you right away ,  And I'll devise a plan to get the Moor Out of the way ,  that your conversation and business May be more free . 
I humbly thank you for't . 	I humbly thank you for it . 
I never knew A Florentine more kind and honest . 	I never knew A Florentine more kind and honest . 
the general and his wife are talking of it ,  And she speaks for you stoutly . 	the general and his wife are talking about it; And she strongly speaks up for you . 
the Moor replies That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus And great affinity ,  and that in wholesome wisdom He might not but refuse you; but he protests he loves you ,  And needs no other suitor but his likings To take the safest occasion by the front To bring you in again . 	the Moor replies That the man you hurt is very famous in Cyprus And has a great reputation ,  and that ,  in pure wisdom ,  He might not refuse you ,  but he protests he loves you And needs no other person begging than his own opinion To take the safest public occasion To bring you back again . 
yet ,  I beseech you ,  If you think fit ,  or that it may be done ,  Give me advantage of some brief discourse With Desdemona alone . 	still ,  I beg you ,  If you think it’s okay ,  or that it may be done ,  Get me a chance to speak briefly With Desdemona alone . 
pray you ,  come in . 	I beg you ,  come in . 
I will bestow you where you shall have time To speak your bosom freely . 	I will hide you where you shall have time To speak your heart freely . 
I am much bound to you . 	thank you so much . 
well ,  my good lord ,  I'll do't . 	well ,  my good lord ,  I'll do it . 
this fortification ,  gentlemen ,  shall we see't ? 	this fortification ,  gentlemen ,  shall we see it ? 
we'll wait upon your lordship . 	we'll wait for your lordship . 
be thou assured ,  good Cassio ,  I will do All my abilities in thy behalf . 	be assured ,  good Cassio ,  I will do All I can in your behalf . 
o ,  that's an honest fellow . 	o ,  that's an honest fellow . 
do not doubt ,  Cassio ,  But I will have my lord and you again As friendly as you were . 	don’t doubt it ,  Cassio ,  That I will have my lord and you As friendly again as you were . 
bounteous madam ,  Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio ,  He's never anything but your true servant . 	generous madam ,  Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio ,  He'll never be anything but your true servant . 
ay ,  but ,  lady ,  That policy may either last so long ,  Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet ,  Or breed itself so out of circumstances ,  That I being absent and my place supplied ,  My general will forget my love and service . 	yes ,  but ,  lady ,  That policy may either last so long ,  Or feed on such nice and light diet ,  Or take itself so out of circumstance ,  That ,  with my absence and my place filled ,  My general will forget my love and service . 
my lord shall never rest; I'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience; His bed shall seem a school ,  his board a shrift; I'll intermingle everything he does With Cassio's suit . 	my lord shall never rest; I'll watch him calmly ,  and talk him out of patience; His bed shall seem like a school ,  his meals a confessional; I'll intermingle everything he does With Cassio's suit . 
therefore be merry ,  Cassio ,  For thy solicitor shall rather die Than give thy cause away . 	therefore be happy ,  Cassio; Because your lawyer would rather die Than lose your case . 
madam ,  here comes my lord . 	madam ,  here comes My lord . 
madam ,  I'll take my leave . 	madam ,  I'll leave . 
nay ,  stay and hear me speak . 	why ,  stay ,  And listen to me speak . 
madam ,  not now . 	madam ,  not now . 
I am very ill at ease ,  Unfit for mine own purposes . 	I am very uncomfortable ,  Unfit for my own intentions . 
well ,  do your discretion . 	well ,  have it your way . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
I like not that . 	I don’t like that . 
what dost thou say ? 	what did you say ? 
was not that Cassio parted from my wife ? 	wasn’t that Cassio leaving my wife ? 
cassio ,  my lord ! 	cassio ,  my lord ! 
no ,  sure ,  I cannot think it ,  That he would steal away so guiltylike ,  Seeing you coming . 	no ,  sure ,  I cannot believe That he would steal away so guiltily ,  Seeing you coming . 
I do believe 'twas he . 	I do believe it was he . 
how now ,  my lord ! 	how now ,  my lord ! 
I have been talking with a suitor here ,  A man that languishes in your displeasure . 	I have been talking with a petitioner here ,  A man that suffers greatly in your displeasure . 
who is't you mean ? 	who is it you mean ? 
why ,  your lieutenant ,  Cassio . 	why ,  your lieutenant ,  Cassio . 
went he hence now ? 	didn’t he just leave ? 
ay ,  sooth; so humbled ,  That he hath left part of his grief with me ,  To suffer with him . 	yes ,  truly ,  so humbled That he has left part of his grief with me To suffer with him . 
good love ,  call him back . 	good love ,  call him back . 
not now ,  sweet Desdemona; some other time . 	not now ,  sweet Desdemon; some other time . 
but shall't be shortly ? 	but shall it be soon ? 
the sooner ,  sweet ,  for you . 	the sooner ,  sweet ,  for you . 
shall't be tonight at supper ? 	shall it be tonight at supper ? 
no ,  not tonight . 	no ,  not tonight . 
tomorrow dinner then ? 	tomorrow night at dinner then ? 
I shall not dine at home; I meet the captains at the citadel . 	I won’t be eating at home; I have to meet the captains at the fortress . 
In faith ,  he's penitent; And yet his trespass ,  in our common reason— Save that ,  they say ,  the wars must make examples Out of their best—is not almost a fault To incur a private check . 	in faith ,  he's very sorry; And yet his crime ,  in our common reason ,  Except that ,  they say ,  the wars must make examples Out of their best ,  is not almost a fault To incur a private punishment . 
when shall he come ? 	when shall he come ? 
tell me ,  Othello . 	tell me ,  Othello . 
I wonder in my soul ,  What you would ask me ,  that I should deny ,  Or stand so mammering on . 	I wonder in my soul What you would ask me to do that I should deny ,  Or stand so hesitant about . 
what ? 	what ! 
nay ,  when I have a suit— Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed ,  It shall be full of poise and difficult weight ,  And fearful to be granted . 	no ,  when I have a favor to ask Where I mean to touch your love indeed ,  It shall be full of confidence and heavy ,  And fearful to be granted . 
shall I deny you ? 	shall I deny you ? 
no . 	no . 
farewell ,  my lord . 	farewell ,  my lord . 
emilia ,  come . 	emilia ,  come . 
be as your fancies teach you; Whate'er you be ,  I am obedient . 	be as your thoughts teach you; Whatever you are ,  I am obedient . 
excellent wretch ! 	excellent wretch ! 
perdition catch my soul ,  But I do love thee ! 	destruction take my soul ,  But I do love you ! 
and when I love thee not ,  Chaos is come again . 	and when I don’t love you ,  Chaos comes back . 
did Michael Cassio ,  when you woo'd my lady ,  Know of your love ? 	did Michael Cassio ,  when you courted my lady ,  Know about your love ? 
he did ,  from first to last . 	he did ,  from first to last . 
why dost thou ask ? 	why do you ask ? 
but for a satisfaction of my thought; No further harm . 	only to satisfy my thought ,  No further harm . 
why of thy thought ,  Iago ? 	what bout your thought ,  Iago ? 
I did not think he had been acquainted with her . 	I didn’t think he had been acquainted with her . 
o ,  yes ,  and went between us very oft . 	o ,  yes; and went between us very often . 
Indeed ! 	Indeed ! 
Indeed ? 	Indeed ! 
ay ,  indeed . 	yes ,  indeed . 
discern'st thou aught in that ? 	do you see anything in that ? 
Is he not honest ? 	Isn’t he honest ? 
honest ,  my lord ? 	honest ,  my lord ! 
honest ? 	honest ! 
ay ,  honest . 	yes ,  honest . 
my lord ,  for aught I know . 	my lord ,  for all I know . 
what dost thou think ? 	what do you think ? 
think ,  my lord ? 	think ,  my lord ! 
think ,  my lord ? 	think ,  my lord ! 
by heaven ,  he echoes me ,  As if there were some monster in his thought Too hideous to be shown . 	by heaven ,  he echoes me ,  As if there were some monster in his thoughts Too hideous to be shown . 
what didst not like ? 	what didn’t you like ? 
If thou dost love me ,  Show me thy thought . 	If you do love me ,  Tell me what you were thinking . 
my lord ,  you know I love you . 	my lord ,  you know I love you . 
I think thou dost; And for I know thou'rt full of love and honesty And weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath ,  Therefore these stops of thine fright me the more; For such things in a false disloyal knave Are tricks of custom; but in a man that's just They're close dilations ,  working from the heart ,  That passion cannot rule . 	I think you do; And ,  because I know you are full of love and honesty And weigh your words carefully before saying them ,  These stops of yours frighten me even more ,  Because such things in a false ,  disloyal rogue Are tricks of custom ,  but in a man that's just They're hidden delays ,  working from the heart ,  That passion cannot control . 
for Michael Cassio ,  I dare be sworn I think that he is honest . 	for Michael Cassio ,  I would swear I think that he is honest . 
I think so too . 	I think so too . 
men should be what they seem; Or those that be not ,  would they might seem none ! 	men should be what they seem; Or those that are not ,  I wish wouldn’t seem so ! 
certain ,  men should be what they seem . 	certainly ,  men should be what they seem . 
why then I think Cassio's an honest man . 	why ,  then ,  I think Cassio's an honest man . 
utter my thoughts ? 	speak my thoughts ? 
why ,  say they are vile and false; As where's that palace where in to foul things Sometimes intrude not ? 	why ,  what if they are vile and false ,  Where's that palace that foul things sometimes intrude ? 
who has a breast so pure ,  But some uncleanly apprehensions Keep leets and lawdays ,  and in session sit With meditations lawful ? 	who has a breast so pure That some unclean thoughts Keep court records and legal holidays ,  and sit in session With lawful deliberations ? 
thou dost conspire against thy friend ,  Iago ,  If thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear A stranger to thy thoughts . 	you conspire against your friend ,  Iago ,  If you only think him wronged and won’t let him be Anything but a stranger to your thoughts . 
I do beseech you— Though I perchance am vicious in my guess ,  As ,  I confess ,  it is my nature's plague To spy into abuses ,  and oft my jealousy Shapes faults that are not—that your wisdom yet ,  From one that so imperfectly conceits ,  Would take no notice ,  nor build yourself a trouble Out of his scattering and unsure observance . 	I do beg you ,  Although I am ,  perhaps ,  vicious in my guess ,  As I confess it is a bad habit of mine To look deeply into wrongs ,  and to find faults that aren’t By my jealousy ,  that your wisdom still would take no Notice from one that so imperfectly imagines things ,  Or create a problem for yourself Out of his scattered and unsure observations . 
It were not for your quiet nor your good ,  Nor for my manhood ,  honesty ,  or wisdom ,  To let you know my thoughts . 	It’s not good for your peace or your wellbeing ,  Or for my manhood ,  honesty ,  or wisdom To let you know my thoughts . 
what dost thou mean ? 	what do you mean ? 
by heaven ,  I'll know thy thoughts . 	by heaven ,  I'll know you’re thinking . 
you cannot ,  if my heart were in your hand; Nor shall not ,  whilst 'tis in my custody . 	you cannot ,  unless my heart were in your hand ,  And that won’t happen while it is in my custody . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
that cuckold lives in bliss Who ,  certain of his fate ,  loves not his wronger; But O ,  what damned minutes tells he o'er Who dotes ,  yet doubts ,  suspects ,  yet strongly loves ! 	that deceived man lives in bliss Who ,  certain of his fate ,  doesn’t love who wronged him; But O ,  what damned stories he tells about Who loves ,  but doubts ,  suspects ,  but strongly loves ! 
o misery ! 	o misery ! 
why ,  why is this ? 	why ,  why is this ? 
think'st thou I'ld make a life of jealousy ,  To follow still the changes of the moon With fresh suspicions ? 	do you think I'd make a life of jealousy To follow still the changes of the moon With fresh suspicions ? 
exchange me for a goat ,  When I shall turn the business of my soul To such exsufflicate and blown surmises ,  Matching thy inference . 	trade me for a goat When I shall turn the business of my soul To such puffed up and blown suspicions ,  Matching your suggestion . 
tis not to make me jealous To say my wife is fair ,  feeds well ,  loves company ,  Is free of speech ,  sings ,  plays ,  and dances well; Where virtue is ,  these are more virtuous . 	It won’t make me jealous ,  To say my wife is beautiful ,  cooks well ,  loves company ,  Is free of speech ,  sings ,  plays ,  and dances well; Where virtue is ,  these are more virtuous . 
nor from mine own weak merits will I draw The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt; For she had eyes and chose me . 	and I won’t draw from my own weak merits The smallest fear or doubt of her turning against me ,  Because she had eyes and chose me . 
no ,  Iago ,  I'll see before I doubt; when I doubt ,  prove; And on the proof ,  there is no more but this ,  Away at once with love or jealousy ! 	no ,  Iago ,  I'll see before I doubt; when I doubt ,  I’ll need proof; And on the proof ,  there is no more but this ,  To hell with love or jealousy at once ! 
I am glad of it ,  for now I shall have reason To show the love and duty that I bear you With franker spirit . 	I’m glad to hear it; because now I shall have reason To show the love and duty that I bear you With a more open spirit . 
therefore ,  as I am bound ,  Receive it from me . 	therefore ,  as I am supposed to ,  Receive it from me . 
I speak not yet of proof . 	I don’t speak yet of proof . 
look to your wife; observe her well with Cassio; Wear your eye thus ,  not jealous nor secure . 	look at your wife; observe her well with Cassio; Wear your eye like this ,  not jealous or secure . 
I know our country disposition well; In Venice they do let heaven see the pranks They dare not show their husbands; their best conscience Is not to leave't undone ,  but keep't unknown . 	I know our country’s disposition well; In Venice they let heaven see the pranks They wouldn’t dare show their husbands; their best conscience Isn’t to leave it unfinished ,  but to keep it unknown . 
dost thou say so ? 	you say so ? 
she did deceive her father ,  marrying you; And when she seem'd to shake and fear your looks ,  She loved them most . 	she deceived her father by marrying you; And when she seemed to shake and fear your looks ,  She loved them most . 
and so she did . 	and so she did . 
I am bound to thee forever . 	I am bound to you forever . 
I see this hath a little dash'd your spirits . 	I see this has dashed your spirits a little . 
not a jot ,  not a jot . 	not a jot ,  not a jot . 
I' faith ,  I fear it has . 	trust me ,  I fear it has . 
I hope you will consider what is spoke Comes from my love . 	I hope you will consider that what I have spoken Comes from my love; but I see you're upset . 
but I do see you're moved; I am to pray you not to strain my speech To grosser issues ,  nor to larger reach Than to suspicion . 	I beg you not to push my speech To grosser issues or to reach beyond Mere suspicion . 
I will not . 	I will not . 
should you do so ,  my lord ,  My speech should fall into such vile success Which my thoughts aim not at . 	should you do so ,  my lord ,  My speech should fall into such vile things That my thoughts are not aimed at . 
no ,  not much moved . 	no ,  not too upset . 
I do not think but Desdemona's honest . 	I can only think that Desdemona's honest . 
long live she so ! 	long live she so ! 
and long live you to think so ! 	and long live you to think so ! 
but pardon me . 	but pardon me . 
I do not in position Distinctly speak of her; though I may fear ,  Her will ,  recoiling to her better judgement ,  May fall to match you with her country forms ,  And happily repent . 	I don’t have the position To speak knowingly of her; although I may fear ,  Her will ,  rebelling against her better judgment ,  May decide to match you with her countrymen ,  And happily repent her ways . 
leave me ,  Iago . 	leave me ,  Iago . 
my lord ,  I take my leave . 	my lord ,  I’m leaving . 
why did I marry ? 	why did I get married ? 
this honest creature doubtless Sees and knows more ,  much more ,  than he unfolds . 	this honest creature undoubtedly Sees and knows more ,  much more ,  than he reveals . 
In the meantime ,  Let me be thought too busy in my fears— As worthy cause I have to fear I am— And hold her free ,  I do beseech your honor . 	In the meantime ,  Please think I am too occupied with my fears ,  As there are strong reasons to fear I am ,  And consider her innocent ,  I beg your honor . 
fear not my government . 	don’t be afraid of what I think . 
I once more take my leave . 	once more ,  I’m leaving . 
this fellow's of exceeding honesty ,  And knows all qualities ,  with a learned spirit ,  Of human dealings . 	this fellow's exceedingly honesty ,  And knows all qualities ,  with an educated spirit ,  Of human dealings . 
If I do prove her haggard ,  Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings ,  I'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind To prey at fortune . 	If I prove her unfaithful ,  Although that her leashes were my dear heartstrings ,  I'd suddenly go away ,  and let her follow the wind To plunder fortune . 
o curse of marriage ,  That we can call these delicate creatures ours ,  And not their appetites ! 	o curses on marriage ,  That we can call these delicate creatures ours ,  And not control their appetites ! 
I had rather be a toad ,  And live upon the vapor of a dungeon ,  Than keep a corner in the thing I love For others' uses . 	I had rather be a toad ,  And live on the air of a dungeon ,  Than keep a piece of the thing I love For others' uses . 
yet ,  'tis the plague of great ones; Prerogatived are they less than the base; 'Tis destiny unshunnable ,  like death: Even then this forked plague is fated to us When we do quicken . 	still ,  it is the plague of great men ,  They have fewer choices than common men; It is an unshakeable destiny ,  like death . 
I'll not believe't . 	I'll not believe it . 
how now ,  my dear Othello ! 	how are you ,  my dear Othello ! 
your dinner ,  and the generous islanders By you invited ,  do attend your presence . 	your dinner and the generous islanders You invited ,  wait for your presence . 
I am to blame . 	I am to blame . 
why do you speak so faintly ? 	why do you speak so softly ? 
are you not well ? 	are you unwell ? 
I have a pain upon my forehead here . 	I have a pain on my forehead here . 
come ,  I'll go in with you . 	come ,  I'll go in with you . 
I am very sorry that you are not well . 	I am very sorry that you are not well . 
I'll have the work ta'en out ,  And give't Iago . 	I'll have the embroidery taken out ,  And give it Iago . 
what he will do with it Heaven knows ,  not I; I nothing but to please his fantasy . 	what he will do with it heaven knows ,  I don’t; I only give it to him to please him . 
do not you chide; I have a thing for you . 	don’t scold; I have something for you . 
a thing for me ? 	a thing for me ! 
It is a common thing— Ha ! 	It is a common thing… Ha ! 
to have a foolish wife . 	to have a foolish wife . 
o ,  is that all ? 	o ,  is that all ? 
what will you give me now For that same handkerchief ? 	what will you give me now For that same handkerchief ? 
what handkerchief ? 	what handkerchief ? 
what handkerchief ? 	what handkerchief ! 
why ,  that the Moor first gave to Desdemona; That which so often you did bid me steal . 	why ,  the one that the Moor first gave to Desdemona; The one that you asked me so often to steal . 
hast stol'n it from her ? 	have you stolen it from her ? 
look ,  here it is . 	look ,  here it is . 
a good wench; give it me . 	a good wench; give it to me . 
what will you do with't ,  that you have been so earnest To have me filch it ? 	what will you do with it ,  that you have been so eager For me to steal it ? 
why ,  what is that to you ? 	why ,  what's that to you ? 
If't be not for some purpose of import ,  Give't me again . 	If it’s not for an important purpose ,  Give it back to me again . 
poor lady ,  she'll run mad When she shall lack it . 	poor lady ,  she'll run mad When she misses it . 
be not acknown on't; I have use for it . 	mind your own business ; I have use for it . 
go ,  leave me . 	go ,  leave me . 
I will in Cassio's lodging lose this napkin ,  And let him find it . 	I will put this napkin in Cassio's room ,  And let him find it . 
not poppy ,  nor mandragora ,  Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world ,  Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owedst yesterday . 	not poppy ,  nor mandragora ,  Nor all the drowsy drugs of the world ,  Shall ever bring you that sweet sleep Which you had yesterday . 
why ,  how now ,  general ! 	why ,  how are you ,  general ! 
no more of that . 	no more of that . 
avaunt ! 	go away ! 
be gone ! 	be gone ! 
how now ,  my lord ? 	what ,  my lord ! 
what sense had I of her stol'n hours of lust ? 	what sense did I have of her stolen hours of lust ? 
I am sorry to hear this . 	I am sorry to hear this . 
I had been happy if the general camp ,  Pioners and all ,  had tasted her sweet body ,  So I had nothing known . 	I would’ve been happy if the entire camp ,  Pioneers and all ,  had tasted her sweet body ,  As long as I didn’t know about it . 
o ,  now forever Farewell the tranquil mind ! 	o ,  now ,  forever Farewell to the peaceful mind ! 
farewell content ! 	farewell happiness ! 
farewell the plumed troop and the big wars That make ambition virtue ! 	farewell to the plumed forces and the big wars That make ambition a virtue ! 
o ,  farewell ,  Farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump ,  The spiritstirring drum ,  the earpiercing fife ,  The royal banner ,  and all quality ,  Pride ,  pomp ,  and circumstance of glorious war ! 	o ,  farewell ,  Farewell the neighing horse and the shrill trumpet ,  The spirit - stirring drum ,  the ear - piercing fife ,  The royal banner ,  and all goodness ,  Pride ,  pomp ,  and circumstance of glorious war ! 
and O you mortal engines ,  whose rude throats The immortal Jove's dread clamors counterfeit ,  Farewell ! 	and ,  O you mortal device ,  whose rude throats Pretend to be the immortal Jove's dread clamors ,  Farewell ! 
othello's occupation's gone ! 	othello's occupation's gone ! 
Is't possible ,  my lord ? 	Is it possible ,  my lord ? 
villain ,  be sure thou prove my love a whore; Be sure of it . 	villain ,  be sure you prove my love a whore; Be sure of it . 
give me the ocular proof; Or ,  by the worth of man's eternal soul ,  Thou hadst been better have been born a dog Than answer my waked wrath ! 	give me the proof I can see; Or ,  by the worth of man's eternal soul ,  You would’ve been better born a dog Than answer my aroused anger ! 
Is't come to this ? 	has it come to this ? 
make me to see't; or at the least so prove it ,  That the probation bear no hinge nor loop To hang a doubt on; or woe upon thy life ! 	make me see it ; or at the least prove it so That the accusation has no hinges or loops To hang a doubt on ,  or woe on your life ! 
o grace ! 	o grace ! 
o heaven defend me ! 	o heaven defend me ! 
are you a man ? 	are you a man ? 
have you a soul or sense ? 	have you got a soul or sense ? 
god be wi' you; take mine office . 	god be with you; take my job . 
o wretched fool ,  That livest to make thine honesty a vice ! 	o wretched fool ,  That lives to make your honesty a vice ! 
o monstrous world ! 	o monstrous world ! 
take note ,  take note ,  O world ,  To be direct and honest is not safe . 	take note ,  take note ,  O world ,  To be direct and honest is not safe . 
I thank you for this profit ,  and from hence I'll love no friend sith love breeds such offense . 	I thank you for this lesson; and from this point forward ,  I'll love no friend ,  since love breeds such contempt . 
I should be wise; for honesty's a fool ,  And loses that it works for . 	I should be wise ,  because honesty's a fool ,  And loses what it works for . 
by the world ,  I think my wife be honest ,  and think she is not; I think that thou art just ,  and think thou art not . 	by the world ,  I think my wife is honest ,  and think she is not; I think that you are just ,  and think you are not . 
I'll have some proof . 	I'll have some proof . 
her name ,  that was as fresh As Dian's visage ,  is now begrimed and black As mine own face . 	her name ,  that was as fresh As Diana's face ,  is now as grimy and black As my own face . 
If there be cords or knives ,  Poison or fire ,  or suffocating streams ,  I'll not endure it . 	If there are ropes or knives ,  Poison or fire ,  or suffocating streams ,  I'll not endure it . 
would I were satisfied ! 	I wish I were satisfied ! 
you would be satisfied ? 	you would be satisfied ? 
would ? 	would ? 
nay ,  I will . 	no ,  I will . 
and may . 	and may . 
but ,  how ? 	but how ? 
how satisfied ,  my lord ? 	how satisfied ,  my lord ? 
death and damnation ! 	death and damnation ! 
o ! 	o ! 
It were a tedious difficulty ,  I think ,  To bring them to that prospect . 	It’s a lengthy problem ,  I think ,  To bring them to that event . 
damn them then ,  If ever mortal eyes do see them bolster More than their own ! 	damn them then ,  If ever mortal eyes see them in any bed Other than their own ! 
what then ? 	what then ? 
how then ? 	how then ? 
what shall I say ? 	what shall I say ? 
where's satisfaction ? 	where's satisfaction ? 
It is impossible you should see this Were they as prime as goats ,  as hot as monkeys ,  As salt as wolves in pride ,  and fools as gross As ignorance made drunk . 	It is impossible that you should see this If they were as prime as goats ,  as hot as monkeys ,  As salty as wolves in a pride ,  and fools as disgusting As ignorance made drunk . 
but yet ,  I say ,  If imputation and strong circumstances ,  Which lead directly to the door of truth ,  Will give you satisfaction ,  you may have't . 	but still ,  I say ,  If suggestion and strong circumstances Which lead directly to the door of truth ,  Will give you satisfaction ,  you may have it . 
give me a living reason she's disloyal . 	give me a living reason why she's unfaithful . 
I do not like the office; But sith I am enter'd in this cause so far ,  Prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love ,  I will go on . 	I don’t like the job; But ,  since I am entered already so far into this cause ,  Encouraged to it by foolish honesty and love ,  I will go on . 
I lay with Cassio lately And ,  being troubled with a raging tooth ,  I could not sleep . 	I slept with Cassio lately ,  And ,  being troubled with a raging tooth ,  I could not sleep . 
nay ,  this was but his dream . 	no ,  this was only his dream . 
and this may help to thicken other proofs That do demonstrate thinly . 	and this may help to support other proofs That look questionable . 
I'll tear her all to pieces . 	I'll tear her all to pieces . 
tell me but this; Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief Spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand ? 	tell me but this ,  Haven’t you sometimes seen a handkerchief Spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand ? 
I gave her such a one; 'twas my first gift . 	I gave her such a one; it was my first gift . 
now do I see 'tis true . 	now I see it is true . 
arise ,  black vengeance ,  from thy hollow cell ! 	arise ,  black vengeance ,  from your hollow hell ! 
yield up ,  O love ,  thy crown and hearted throne To tyrannous hate ! 	yield up ,  O love ,  your crown and hearted throne To tyrannous hate ! 
swell ,  bosom ,  with thy fraught ,  For 'tis of aspics' tongues ! 	swell ,  bosom ,  with your fury ,  Because it is from lavender’s tongues ! 
yet be content . 	yet calm down . 
o ,  blood ,  blood ,  blood ! 	o ,  blood ,  Iago ,  blood ! 
patience ,  I say; your mind perhaps may change . 	patience ,  I say; your mind may perhaps change . 
let him command ,  And to obey shall be in me remorse ,  What bloody business ever . 	let him command ,  And it shall be penance for me to obey ,  Whatever the bloody business is . 
damn her ,  lewd minx ! 	damn her ,  lewd cat ! 
o ,  damn her ! 	o ,  damn her ! 
come ,  go with me apart; I will withdraw ,  To furnish me with some swift means of death For the fair devil . 	come ,  go aside with me; I will leave so I can Equip me with some swift means of death For the beautiful devil . 
now art thou my lieutenant . 	now you are my lieutenant . 
I am your own forever . 	I am your own forever . 
do you know ,  sirrah ,  where Lieutenant Cassio lies ? 	do you know ,  servant ,  where Lieutenant Cassio lies ? 
I dare not say he lies anywhere . 	I dare not say he lies anywhere . 
why ,  man ? 	why ,  man ? 
he's a soldier; and for one to say a soldier lies ,  is stab -  bing . 	he's a soldier; and for one to say a soldier lies is stabbing him . 
to tell you where he lodges ,  is to tell you where I lie . 	to tell you where he lives is to tell you where I lie . 
can anything be made of this ? 	can anything be made out of this ? 
I know not where he lodges ,  and for me to devise a lodging ,  and say he lies here or he lies there ,  were to lie in mine own throat . 	I don’t know where he lives; and for me to make up a lodging ,  and say he lies here or he lies there is to lie in my own throat . 
can you inquire him out and be edified by report ? 	can you ask about him and be satisfied by the reports ? 
I will catechize the world for him; that is ,  make ques -  tions and by them answer . 	I will preach to the world for him; that is ,  make questions and answer them . 
seek him ,  bid him come hither . 	seek him ,  bid him come here . 
tell him I have moved my lord on his behalf and hope all will be well . 	tell him I have moved my lord on his behalf ,  and hope all will be well . 
to do this is within the compass of man's wit ,  and therefore I will attempt the doing it . 	to do this is within the scope of man's wit ,  and therefore ,  I will attempt to do it . 
where should I lose that handkerchief ,  Emilia ? 	where should I have lost that handkerchief ,  Emilia ? 
I know not ,  madam . 	I don’t know ,  madam . 
believe me ,  I had rather have lost my purse Full of crusadoes; and ,  but my noble Moor Is true of mind and made of no such baseness As jealous creatures are ,  it were enough To put him to ill thinking . 	believe me ,  I would rather have lost my purse Full of money ,  and ,  except that my noble Moor Is true of mind and made of no such lowness As jealous creatures are ,  it would be enough To put him to ill thinking . 
Is he not jealous ? 	Isn’t he jealous ? 
who ,  he ? 	who ,  he ? 
I think the sun where he was born Drew all such humors from him . 	I think the sun where he was born Took all such humors out of him . 
look ,  where he comes . 	look ,  here he comes . 
I will not leave him now till Cassio Be call'd to him . 	I will not leave him now until Cassio Is called to him . 
how is't with you ,  my lord ? 	how is it with you ,  my lord ? 
well ,  my good lady . 	well ,  my good lady . 
o ,  hardness to dissemble ! 	o ,  hardness to lie ! 
how do you ,  Desdemona ? 	how are you ,  Desdemona ? 
well ,  my good lord . 	well ,  my good lord . 
give me your hand . 	give me your hand . 
this hand is moist ,  my lady . 	this hand is moist ,  my lady . 
this hand of yours requires A sequester from liberty ,  fasting and prayer ,  Much castigation ,  exercise devout ,  For here's a young and sweating devil here That commonly rebels . 	this hand of yours requires A vacation from liberty ,  fasting ,  and prayer ,  Much punishment ,  holy exercise ,  Because here's a young and sweating devil here That commonly rebels . 
tis a good hand ,  A frank one . 	It is a good hand ,  An open one . 
you may ,  indeed ,  say so; For 'twas that hand that gave away my heart . 	you may ,  indeed ,  say so ,  Because it was that hand that gave away my heart . 
a liberal hand . 	a liberal hand . 
the hearts of old gave hands; But our new heraldry is hands ,  not hearts . 	the hearts of old gave hands ,  But our new code of behavior is hands ,  not hearts . 
I cannot speak of this . 	I cannot speak about this . 
come now ,  your promise . 	come now ,  your promise . 
what promise ,  chuck ? 	what promise ,  dear ? 
I have sent to bid Cassio come speak with you . 	I have sent to bid Cassio to come and speak with you . 
I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me; Lend me thy handkerchief . 	I have salty and sorry tears that bother me; Lend me your handkerchief . 
here ,  my lord . 	here ,  my lord . 
that which I gave you . 	the one I gave you . 
I have it not about me . 	I don’t have it with me . 
not ? 	no ? 
no ,  faith ,  my lord . 	no ,  faith ,  my lord . 
that's a fault . 	that is a mistake . 
that handkerchief Did an Egyptian to my mother give; She was a charmer ,  and could almost read The thoughts of people . 	an Egyptian Gave that handkerchief to my mother; She cast charms and could almost read The thoughts of people . 
she told her ,  while she kept it ,  'Twould make her amiable and subdue my father Entirely to her love ,  but if she lost it Or made a gift of it ,  my father's eye Should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt After new fancies . 	she told her ,  that ,  while she kept It ,  it would make her sweet and soften my father Entirely to her love; but if she lost it Or made a gift of it ,  my father's eye Should see her as hateful ,  and his spirits should hunt After new loves . 
she dying gave it me ,  And bid me ,  when my fate would have me wive ,  To give it her . 	my mother ,  dying ,  gave it to me ,  And asked me ,  when my fate would have me marry ,  To give it to my wife . 
Is't possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
Indeed ! 	Indeed ! 
is't true ? 	Is it true ? 
most veritable; therefore look to't well . 	very true; therefore look well for it . 
then would to God that I had never seen't ! 	then I wish to God that I had never seen it ! 
ha ! 	ha ! 
wherefore ? 	why ? 
why do you speak so startingly and rash ? 	why do you speak so haltingly and angrily ? 
Is't lost ? 	Is it lost ? 
is't gone ? 	Is it gone ? 
speak ,  is it out o' the way ? 	speak ,  is it missing ? 
heaven bless us ! 	heaven bless us ! 
say you ? 	what do you say ? 
It is not lost; but what an if it were ? 	It is not lost; but what if it were ? 
how ? 	how ? 
I say ,  it is not lost . 	I say ,  it is not lost . 
fetch't ,  let me see it . 	go get it ,  let me see it . 
why ,  so I can ,  sir ,  but I will not now . 	why ,  so I can ,  sir ,  but I won’t now . 
this is a trick to put me from my suit . 	this is a trick to distract me from my request . 
pray you ,  let Cassio be received again . 	I beg you ,  let Cassio be welcomed again . 
come ,  come; You'll never meet a more sufficient man . 	come ,  come; You'll never meet a more capable man . 
the handkerchief ! 	the handkerchief ! 
a man that all his time Hath founded his good fortunes on your love ,  Shared dangers with you— The handkerchief ! 	a man that all his life Has founded his good fortunes on your love ,  Shared dangers with you ,  The handkerchief ! 
In sooth ,  you are to blame . 	In truth ,  you are to blame . 
away ! 	go away ! 
Is not this man jealous ? 	this man isn’t jealous ? 
I ne'er saw this before . 	I never saw this before . 
sure there's some wonder in this handkerchief; I am most unhappy in the loss of it . 	surely there's some magic in this handkerchief; I am very unhappy at the loss of it . 
go and importune her . 	go and beg her . 
how now ,  good Cassio ! 	hello ,  good Cassio ! 
what's the news with you ? 	what's the news with you ? 
I would not be delay'd . 	I would not be delayed . 
alas ,  thrice gentle Cassio ! 	alas ,  thrice - gentle Cassio ! 
my advocation is not now in tune; My lord is not my lord ,  nor should I know him Were he in favor as in humor alter'd . 	my pleading is out of tune right now; My lord is not my lord; and I wouldn’t know him If he were he in favor as changed in disposition . 
so help me every spirit sanctified ,  As I have spoken for you all my best And stood within the blank of his displeasure For my free speech ! 	so every holy spirit help me ,  As I have spoken all my best for you ,  And stood shocked at his displeasure Over my free speech ! 
you must awhile be patient . 	you must be patient a while . 
what I can do I will; and more I will Than for myself I dare . 	what I can do ,  I will; and I will do as much more Than I dare do for myself . 
let that suffice you . 	let that satisfy you . 
Is my lord angry ? 	Is my lord angry ? 
he went hence but now ,  And certainly in strange unquietness . 	he went just left ,  And certainly in a strange state of upset . 
can he be angry ? 	can he be angry ? 
something of moment then . 	something of the moment ,  then . 
I prithee ,  do so . 	I beg you ,  do so . 
something sure of state ,  Either from Venice or some unhatch'd practice Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him ,  Hath puddled his clear spirit; and in such cases Men's natures wrangle with inferior things ,  Though great ones are their object . 	surely it’s some matter of state ,  Either from Venice or some minor problem Shown to him here in Cyprus ,  That has muddied his clear spirit ,  and in such cases Men's natures fight with inferior things ,  Although their object is great ones . 
tis even so; For let our finger ache ,  and it indues Our other healthful members even to that sense Of pain . 	It’s even so true That we let our finger ache and it infects Our other healthful members ,  even to the point Of pain . 
nay ,  we must think men are not gods ,  I was ,  unhandsome warrior as I am ,  Arraigning his unkindness with my soul; But now I find I had suborn'd the witness ,  And he's indicted falsely . 	scold me a lot ,  Emilia ,  I was ,  unhandsome warrior as I am ,  Charging his unkindness with a crime of my soul; But now I find I had falsely testified ,  And he's falsely accused . 
pray heaven it be state matters ,  as you think ,  And no conception nor no jealous toy Concerning you . 	pray heaven it is state matters ,  as you think ,  And no plot or no jealous reason Concerning you . 
alas the day ,  I never gave him cause ! 	alas the day ,  I never gave him reason ! 
but jealous souls will not be answer'd so; They are not ever jealous for the cause ,  But jealous for they are jealous . 	but jealous souls will not be answered that way; They are not ever jealous for a reason ,  But jealous because they are jealous . 
tis a monster Begot upon itself ,  born on itself . 	it is a monster Fathered by itself ,  born of itself . 
heaven keep that monster from Othello's mind ! 	heaven keep that monster from Othello's mind ! 
lady ,  amen . 	lady ,  amen . 
I will go seek him . 	I’ll go find him . 
cassio ,  walk hereabout . 	cassio ,  walk around here . 
If I do find him fit ,  I'll move your suit ,  And seek to effect it to my uttermost . 	If I do find him fit ,  I'll ask for your favor ,  And try to get it done the best way I can . 
I humbly thank your ladyship . 	I humbly thank your ladyship . 
save you ,  friend Cassio ! 	save you ,  friend Cassio ! 
what make you from home ? 	what are doing away from home ? 
how is it with you ,  my most fair Bianca ? 	how are you ,  my very beautiful Bianca ? 
I'faith ,  sweet love ,  I was coming to your house . 	actually ,  sweet love ,  I was just coming to your house . 
seven days and nights ? 	seven days and nights ? 
eight score eight hours ? 	one hundred sixty - eight hours ? 
and lovers' absent hours ,  More tedious than the dial eight score times ? 	and lovers' absent hours Being more tedious than the clock one hundred sixty times ? 
o weary reckoning ! 	o weary calculations ! 
o Cassio ,  whence came this ? 	o Cassio ,  where did you get this ? 
this is some token from a newer friend . 	this is some gift from a newer girlfriend . 
well ,  well . 	well ,  well . 
go to ,  woman ! 	come one ,  woman ! 
throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth ,  From whence you have them . 	throw your vile guesses into the devil's teeth ,  From where you got them . 
you are jealous now That this is from some mistress ,  some remembrance: No ,  by my faith ,  Bianca . 	you are jealous now That this is from some mistress ,  some gift . 
why ,  whose is it ? 	why ,  whose is it ? 
I know not ,  sweet . 	I don’t know either . 
I found it in my chamber . 	I found it in my bedroom . 
I like the work well . 	I really like the work . 
leave you ! 	leave you ! 
wherefore ? 	why ? 
I do attend here on the general; And think it no addition ,  nor my wish ,  To have him see me woman'd . 	I’m waiting here for the general ,  And I don’t think it would help ,  and it’s not my wish ,  To have him see me talking with a woman . 
why ,  I pray you ? 	why ,  I beg you ? 
not that I love you not . 	not that I don’t love you . 
but that you do not love me . 	but it’s that you don’t love me . 
I pray you ,  bring me on the way a little; And say if I shall see you soon at night . 	I beg you ,  walk with me on the way a little; And say if I shall see you later tonight . 
tis very good; I must be circumstanced . 	that’s very good; I must be patient . 
will you think so ? 	will you think so ? 
think so ,  Iago ? 	think so ,  Iago ? 
what ,  To kiss in private ? 	what ,  To kiss in private ? 
an unauthorized kiss . 	an unauthorized kiss . 
or to be naked with her friend in bed An hour or more ,  not meaning any harm ? 	or to be naked with her friend in bed An hour or more ,  not meaning any harm ? 
naked in bed ,  Iago ,  and not mean harm ! 	naked in bed ,  Iago ,  and not mean harm ! 
why ,  then ,  'tis hers ,  my lord ,  and being hers ,  She may ,  I think ,  bestow't on any man . 	why ,  then ,  it is hers ,  my lord ,  and being hers ,  She may ,  I think ,  give it to any man . 
ay ,  what of that ? 	yes ,  what of that ? 
that's not so good now . 	that's not so good now . 
what if I had said I had seen him do you wrong ? 	what ,  If I had said I had seen him do you wrong ? 
he hath ,  my lord; but be you well assured ,  No more than he'll unswear . 	he has ,  my lord; but be well assured ,  No more than he'll deny . 
what hath he said ? 	what has he said ? 
faith ,  that he did—I know not what he did . 	faith ,  that he did ,  I don’t know what he did . 
what ? 	what ? 
what ? 	what ? 
with her ,  on her ,  what you will . 	with her ,  on her ,  whatever you want to think . 
zounds ,  that's fulsome ! 	that's sickening . 
nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without some instruction . 	nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without some reason . 
It is not words that shakes me thus . 	It is not words that shake me like this . 
pish ! 	rubbish ! 
noses ,  ears ,  and lips . 	noses ,  ears ,  and lips . 
Is't possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
confess ? —Handkerchief ? —O devil ! 	o devil ! 
work on ,  My medicine ,  work ! 	work on ,  My medicine ,  work ! 
thus credulous fools are caught: And many worthy and chaste dames even thus ,  All guiltless ,  meet reproach . 	believing fools are caught like this; And many worthy and chaste dames just like this ,  All innocent ,  meet punishment . 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  ho ! 
my lord ! 	my lord ! 
my lord ,  I say ! 	my lord ,  I say ! 
othello ! 	othello ! 
how now ,  Cassio ! 	how are you ,  Cassio ! 
what's the matter ? 	what's the matter ? 
rub him about the temples . 	rub him around the temples . 
look ,  he stirs: Do you withdraw yourself a little while ,  He will recover straight . 	step aside and hide yourself a little while ,  He will recover right away . 
when he is gone ,  I would on great occasion speak with you . 	when he is gone ,  I would like to speak with you urgently . 
how is it ,  general ? 	how is it ,  general ? 
have you not hurt your head ? 	haven’t hurt your head ? 
dost thou mock me ? 	do you make fun of me ? 
I mock you ? 	I make fun of you ! 
no ,  by heaven . 	no ,  by heaven . 
would you would bear your fortune like a man ! 	I wish you would bear your luck like a man ! 
a horned man's a monster and a beast . 	an adulterer's a monster and a beast . 
there's many a beast then in a populous city ,  And many a civil monster . 	there's many a beast ,  then ,  in a crowded city ,  And many a civil monster . 
did he confess it ? 	did he confess it ? 
good sir ,  be a man; Think every bearded fellow that's but yoked May draw with you . 	good sir ,  be a man; Do you think every bearded fellow that wears a harness May be driven by you ? 
there's millions now alive That nightly lie in those unproper beds Which they dare swear peculiar . 	there's millions now alive That nightly lie in those adulterous beds which they dare To swear is the first time . 
your case is better . 	your case is better . 
o ,  'tis the spite of hell ,  the fiend's archmock ,  To lip a wanton in a secure couch ,  And to suppose her chaste ! 	o ,  it is the spite of hell ,  the fiend's high mockery ,  To kiss a whore on a safe couch ,  And to suppose her to be chaste ! 
no ,  let me know; And knowing what I am ,  I know what she shall be . 	no ,  let me know; And knowing what I am ,  I know what she shall be . 
o ,  thou art wise; 'tis certain . 	o ,  you are wise; that is certain . 
stand you awhile apart; Confine yourself but in a patient list . 	stand you aside a while; Restrict yourself only in patient way . 
whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief— A passion most unsuiting such a man— Cassio came hither . 	while you were being overwhelmed here by your grief ,  A passion very unsuitable to such a man ,  Cassio came here . 
I shifted him away ,  And laid good ‘scuse upon your ecstasy; Bade him anon return and here speak with me; The which he promised . 	I sent him away ,  And gave him a good excuse for your fit; I told him to come back soon and speak here with me; Which he promised to do . 
do but encave yourself ,  And mark the fleers ,  the gibes ,  and notable scorns ,  That dwell in every region of his face; For I will make him tell the tale anew ,  Where ,  how ,  how oft ,  how long ago ,  and when He hath and is again to cope your wife: I say ,  but mark his gesture . 	only hide yourself ,  And mark the sneers ,  the taunts ,  and outstanding scorns ,  That dwell in every region of his face ,  Because I will make him tell the story as if it were new ,  About where ,  how ,  how often ,  how long ago ,  and when He has had ,  and is again to have ,  sex with your wife . 
marry ,  patience ,  Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen ,  And nothing of a man . 	by Mary ,  have patience; Or I shall say you are totally in a temper ,  And not a man . 
dost thou hear ,  Iago ? 	do you hear me ,  Iago ? 
that's not amiss; But yet keep time in all . 	there’s nothing wrong with that ,  But still be patient in all . 
will you withdraw ? 	will you leave and hide ? 
now will I question Cassio of Bianca ,  A housewife that by selling her desires Buys herself bread and clothes . 	now I will question Cassio about Bianca ,  A housewife that ,  by selling her desires ,  Buys herself bread and clothes . 
It is a creature That dotes on Cassio ,  as 'tis the strumpet's plague To beguile many and be beguiled by one . 	It is a creature That dotes on Cassio ,  as it is the whore's disease To trick many and be tricked by one . 
he ,  when he hears of her ,  cannot refrain From the excess of laughter . 	he ,  when he hears of her ,  cannot refrain From excessive laughter . 
here he comes . 	here he comes . 
as he shall smile ,  Othello shall go mad; And his unbookish jealousy must construe Poor Cassio's smiles ,  gestures ,  and light behavior ,  Quite in the wrong . 	as he smiles ,  Othello shall go crazy; And his ignorant jealousy must interpret Poor Cassio's smiles ,  gestures ,  and happy behavior All wrong . 
how do you now ,  lieutenant ? 	how are you now ,  lieutenant ? 
the worser that you give me the addition Whose want even kills me . 	the worse that you give me the additional information Whose lack of information even kills me . 
ply Desdemona well ,  and you are sure on't . 	persist with Desdemona well ,  and you are sure of it . 
now ,  if this suit lay in Bianca's power ,  How quickly should you speed ! 	now ,  if this promise was in Bianca's power ,  How quickly you would you succeed ! 
alas ,  poor caitiff ! 	alas ,  poor wretch ! 
look ,  how he laughs already ! 	look ,  how he laughs already ! 
I never knew a woman love man so . 	I never knew a woman could love man so . 
alas ,  poor rogue ! 	alas ,  poor rogue ! 
I think ,  i'faith ,  she loves me . 	I think ,  in faith ,  she loves me . 
now he denies it faintly and laughs it out . 	now he denies it faintly and laughs it out . 
do you hear ,  Cassio ? 	do you hear me ,  Cassio ? 
now he importunes him To tell it o'er . 	now he urges him To tell it again . 
go to; well said ,  well said . 	do it ,  it’s well said ,  well said . 
ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
do you triumph ,  Roman ? 	do you win ,  Roman ? 
do you triumph ? 	do you win ? 
I marry her ! 	me marry her ! 
what ? 	what ? 
a customer ! 	a customer ! 
I prithee ,  bear some charity to my wit; do not think it so unwholesome . 	I beg you ,  have some charity for my wit; don’t think it is so unwholesome . 
ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
so ,  so ,  so ,  so . 	so ,  so ,  so ,  so . 
they laugh that win . 	they laugh that win . 
faith ,  the cry goes that you shall marry her . 	faith ,  the rumor goes that you shall marry her . 
prithee ,  say true . 	I beg you ,  tell the truth . 
I am a very villain else . 	I am a very villain if I don’t . 
have you scored me ? 	have you played me ? 
well . 	well . 
this is the monkey's own giving out . 	this is the monkey's own rumor . 
she is persuaded I will marry her ,  out of her own love and flattery ,  not out of my promise . 	she is persuaded I will marry her ,  out of her own love and flattery ,  not out because of my promise . 
Iago beckons me; now he begins the story . 	Iago beckons me; now he begins the story . 
she was here even now; she haunts me in every place . 	she was here even now; she haunts me in every place . 
so hangs and lolls and weeps upon me; so hales and pulls me . 	so hangs ,  and lolls ,  and weeps on me; so hales and pulls me . 
ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber . 	now he tells how she brought him to my bedroom . 
o ,  I see that nose of yours ,  but not that dog I shall throw it to . 	o ,  I see that nose of yours ,  but not that dog I shall throw it to . 
well ,  I must leave her company . 	well ,  I must leave her company . 
before me ! 	before me ! 
look where she comes . 	look ,  here she comes . 
tis such another fitchew ! 	It’s another such polecat ! 
marry ,  a perfumed one . 	by Mary ,  a perfumed one . 
what do you mean by this haunting of me ? 	what do you mean by this haunting of me ? 
let the devil and his dam haunt you ! 	let the devil and his dam haunt you ! 
what did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now ? 	what did you mean by that same handkerchief you just gave me ? 
I was a fine fool to take it . 	I was a fine fool to take it . 
I must take out the work ? 	I must take out the embroidery ? 
a likely piece of work that you should find it in your chamber and not know who left it there ! 	a likely piece of work that you should find it in your bedroom and not know who left it there ! 
this is some minx's token ,  and I must take out the work ? 	this is some cat's gift ,  and I must take out the work ? 
there ,  give it your hobby - horse . 	there ,  give it to your whore . 
wheresoever you had it ,  I'll take out no work on't . 	wherever you had it ,  I won’t take out any embroidery . 
how now ,  my sweet Bianca ! 	come now ,  my sweet Bianca ! 
how now ! 	come now ! 
how now ! 	come now ! 
by heaven ,  that should be my handkerchief ! 	by heaven ,  that’s my handkerchief ! 
an you'll come to supper tonight ,  you may; an you will not ,  come when you are next prepared for . 	If you'll come to supper tonight ,  you may; if you will not ,  come when you are next ready to . 
after her ,  after her . 	after her ,  after her . 
faith ,  I must; she'll rail i' the street else . 	faith ,  I must ,  or else she'll raise a ruckus in the street . 
will you sup there ? 	will you have dinner there ? 
faith ,  I intend so . 	faith ,  I intend to . 
well ,  I may chance to see you ,  for I would very fain speak with you . 	well ,  I maybe I’ll see you; because I would very gladly speak with you . 
prithee ,  come; will you ? 	I beg you ,  come; will you ? 
go to; say no more . 	oK ,  say no more . 
how shall I murder him ,  Iago ? 	how shall I murder him ,  Iago ? 
did you perceive how he laughed at his vice ? 	did you see how he laughed at his sin ? 
o Iago ! 	o Iago ! 
and did you see the handkerchief ? 	and did you see the handkerchief ? 
was that mine ? 	was that mine ? 
yours ,  by this hand . 	yours ,  I swear . 
and to see how he prizes the fool -  ish woman your wife ! 	and to see how he prizes the foolish woman ,  your wife ! 
she gave it him ,  and he hath given it his whore . 	she gave it him ,  and he has given it his whore . 
I would have him nine years akilling . 	I would take nine years to kill him . 
a fine woman ! 	a fine woman ! 
a fair woman ! 	a beautiful woman ! 
a sweet woman ! 	a sweet woman ! 
nay ,  you must forget that . 	no ,  you must forget that . 
ay ,  let her rot ,  and perish ,  and be damned tonight ,  for she shall not live . 	yes ,  let her rot ,  and die ,  and be damned tonight; because she shall not live . 
no ,  my heart is turned to stone; I strike it ,  and it hurts my hand . 	no ,  my heart is turned to stone; I hit it ,  and it hurts my hand . 
o ,  the world hath not a sweeter creature . 	o ,  the world has not a sweeter creature . 
she might lie by an emperor's side ,  and command him tasks . 	she might lie by an emperor's side and order him to work . 
nay ,  that's not your way . 	no ,  that's not your way . 
hang her ! 	hang her ! 
I do but say what she is . 	I only say what she is . 
o ,  she will sing the savageness out of a bear . 	o ,  she will sing the savageness out of a bear ! 
of so high and plenteous wit and invention ! 	of so high and full intelligence and imagination ! 
she's the worse for all this . 	she's the worse for all this . 
o ,  a thousand ,  a thousand times . 	o ,  a thousand ,  a thousand times . 
and then ,  of so gentle a condition ! 	and then ,  of so gentle a disposition ! 
ay ,  too gentle . 	yes ,  too gentle . 
nay ,  that's certain . 	no ,  that's certain . 
but yet the pity of it ,  Iago ! 	but yet the pity of it ,  Iago ! 
o Iago ,  the pity of it ,  Iago ! 	o Iago ,  the pity of it ,  Iago ! 
If you are so fond over her iniquity ,  give her patent to offend ,  for ,  if it touch not you ,  it comes near nobody . 	If you’re so fond of her sin ,  give her permission to offend; because ,  if it doesn’t affect you ,  it affects nobody . 
I will chop her into messes . 	I will chop her into pieces . 
cuckold me ! 	unfaithful to me ! 
o ,  'tis foul in her . 	o ,  it is evil in her . 
with mine officer ! 	with my officer ! 
that's fouler . 	that's even more evil . 
get me some poison ,  Iago ,  this night . 	get me some poison ,  Iago; this night . 
I'll not expostulate with her ,  lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again . 	I'll not argue with her ,  should her body and beauty change my mind again . 
and for Cassio ,  let me be his undertaker . 	and for Cassio ,  let me be his undertaker . 
you shall hear more by midnight . 	you shall hear more by midnight . 
excellent good . 	excellent good . 
a trumpet without . 	a trumpet within . 
what trumpet is that same ? 	what trumpet is that one ? 
something from Venice ,  sure . 	something from Venice ,  surely . 
tis Lodovico Come from the Duke . 	It is Lodovico Come from the duke . 
and ,  see your wife is with him . 	and ,  see ,  your wife is with him . 
god save the worthy general ! 	god save you ,  worthy general ! 
with all my heart ,  sir . 	with all my heart ,  sir . 
the Duke and Senators of Venice greet you . 	the duke and senators of Venice greet you . 
I kiss the instrument of their pleasures . 	I kiss the instrument of their desires . 
and what's the news ,  good cousin Lodovico ? 	and what's the news ,  good cousin Lodovico ? 
I am very glad to see you ,  signior; Welcome to Cyprus . 	I am very glad to see you ,  Signior; Welcome to Cyprus . 
I thank you . 	I thank you . 
how does Lieutenant Cassio ? 	how does Lieutenant Cassio ? 
lives ,  sir . 	he lives ,  sir . 
cousin ,  there's fall'n between him and my lord An unkind breech; but you shall make all well . 	cousin ,  there's an angry break up that’s fallen between him and my lord ,  but you shall make all well . 
are you sure of that ? 	are you sure of that ? 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
Is there division 'twixt my lord and Cassio ? 	Is there division between my lord and Cassio ? 
a most unhappy one . 	a very unhappy one . 
I would do much To atone them ,  for the love I bear to Cassio . 	I would do a lot To reconcile them ,  for the love I bear to Cassio . 
fire and brimstone ! 	fire and brimstone ! 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
are you wise ? 	are you wise ? 
what ,  is he angry ? 	what ,  is he angry ? 
may be the letter moved him; For ,  as I think ,  they do command him home ,  Deputing Cassio in his government . 	may be the letter upset him; Because ,  I think ,  they command him to come home ,  Making Cassio governor in his place . 
by my troth ,  I am glad on't . 	trust me ,  I am glad about it . 
Indeed ! 	Indeed ! 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
I am glad to see you mad . 	I am glad to see you angry . 
I have not deserved this . 	I have not deserved this . 
my lord ,  this would not be believed in Venice ,  Though I should swear I saw't . 	my lord ,  this would not be believed in Venice ,  Although I could swear I saw it . 
o devil ,  devil ! 	o devil ,  devil ! 
If that the earth could teem with woman's tears ,  Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile . 	If the earth could be flooded with woman's tears ,  Each drop she lets fall would prove to be a crocodile . 
out of my sight ! 	out of my sight ! 
I will not stay to offend you . 	I will not stay to offend you . 
mistress ! 	mistress ! 
my lord ? 	my lord ? 
what would you with her ,  sir ? 	what do you want with her ,  sir ? 
who ,  I ,  my lord ? 	who ,  I ,  my lord ? 
proceed you in your tears . 	proceed with your tears . 
concerning this ,  sir—O well - painted passion ! — I am commanded home . 	I am commanded home . 
get you away; I'll send for you anon . 	go away; I'll send for you soon . 
sir ,  I obey the mandate ,  And will return to Venice . 	sir ,  I obey the mandate ,  And will return to Venice . 
hence ,  avaunt ! 	away ,  get going ! 
cassio shall have my place . 	cassio shall take my place . 
and ,  sir ,  tonight ,  I do entreat that we may sup together . 	and ,  sir ,  tonight ,  I beg you that we may dine together . 
you are welcome ,  sir ,  to Cyprus . 	you are welcome ,  sir ,  to Cyprus . 
goats and monkeys ! 	goats and monkeys ! 
Is this the noble Moor whom our full Senate Call all in all sufficient ? 	Is this the noble Moor whom our full senate Said had it all ? 
this the nature Whom passion could not shake ? 	Is this the nature That passion could not shake ? 
whose solid virtue The shot of accident nor dart of chance Could neither graze nor pierce ? 	whose solid virtue Could be neither grazed nor pierced by The shot of accident or dart of fate ? 
he is much changed . 	he is very changed . 
are his wits safe ? 	Is he sane ? 
Is he not light of brain ? 	he’s not sick in the brain ? 
he's that he is . 	he's what he is . 
what ,  strike his wife ! 	what ,  strike his wife ! 
faith ,  that was not so well; yet would I knew That stroke would prove the worst ! 	faith ,  that was not good; still I wish I knew if That stroke would prove to be the worst ! 
Is it his use ? 	Is it his habit ? 
or did the letters work upon his blood ,  And new create this fault ? 	or did the letters work on his blood ,  And newly create this fault ? 
alas ,  alas ! 	alas ,  alas ! 
It is not honesty in me to speak What I have seen and known . 	It is not honesty in me to discuss What I have seen and known . 
I am sorry that I am deceived in him . 	I am sorry that I was wrong about him . 
you have seen nothing ,  then ? 	you have seen nothing ,  then ? 
nor ever heard ,  nor ever did suspect . 	not ever heard ,  or ever suspected . 
yes ,  you have seen Cassio and she together . 	yes ,  you have seen Cassio and her together . 
but then I saw no harm ,  and then I heard Each syllable that breath made up between them . 	but then I saw no harm ,  and then I heard Each syllable that was exchanged between them . 
what ,  did they never whisper ? 	what ,  did they never whisper ? 
never ,  my lord . 	never ,  my lord . 
nor send you out o' the way ? 	nor send you out of the way ? 
never . 	never . 
to fetch her fan ,  her gloves ,  her mask ,  nor nothing ? 	to fetch her fan ,  her gloves ,  her mask ,  or anything ? 
never ,  my lord . 	never ,  my lord . 
that's strange . 	that's strange . 
I durst ,  my lord ,  to wager she is honest ,  Lay down my soul at stake . 	I dare ,  my lord ,  to bet that she is honest ,  Burn me at the stake . 
If any wretch have put this in your head ,  Let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse ! 	If any wretch has put this in your head ,  Let heaven repay them with the serpent's curse ! 
for if she be not honest ,  chaste ,  and true ,  There's no man happy; the purest of their wives Is foul as slander . 	because if she is not honest ,  chaste ,  and true ,  There's no man happy; the purest of their wives Is wicked as the leis about them . 
she says enough; yet she's a simple bawd That cannot say as much . 	she says enough; yet she's a simple rabbit That cannot say as much . 
my lord ,  what is your will ? 	my lord ,  what is your will ? 
pray ,  chuck ,  come hither . 	please ,  dear ,  come here . 
what is your pleasure ? 	what is your pleasure ? 
let me see your eyes; Look in my face . 	let me see your eyes; Look into my face . 
what horrible fancy's this ? 	what horrible desire is this ? 
upon my knees ,  what doth your speech import ? 	on my knees ,  what does your speech mean ? 
I understand a fury in your words ,  But not the words . 	I understand a fury in your words ,  But not the words . 
why ,  what art thou ? 	why ,  what are you ? 
your wife ,  my lord ,  your true and loyal wife . 	your wife ,  my lord; Your true and loyal wife . 
come ,  swear it ,  damn thyself; Lest ,  being like one of heaven ,  the devils themselves Should fear to seize thee . 	come ,  swear it ,  damn yourself; Lest ,  being like one of heaven ,  the devils themselves Should fear to seize you . 
therefore be doubledamn'd; Swear thou art honest . 	therefore be double - damned ,  Swear you are honest . 
heaven doth truly know it . 	heaven does truly know it . 
heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell . 	heaven truly knows that you are as false as hell . 
to whom ,  my lord ? 	to whom ,  my lord ? 
with whom ? 	with whom ? 
how am I false ? 	how am I false ? 
o Desdemona ! 	o Desdemona ! 
away ! 	away ! 
away ! 	away ! 
away ! 	away ! 
alas the heavy day ! 	alas the heavy day ! 
why do you weep ? 	why do you cry ? 
am I the motive of these tears ,  my lord ? 	am I the motive for these tears ,  my lord ? 
If haply you my father do suspect An instrument of this your calling back ,  Lay not your blame on me . 	If you maybe suspect my father is An instrument of this calling you back ,  Don’t lay your blame on me . 
If you have lost him: Why ,  I have lost him too . 	If you have lost him ,  Why ,  I have lost him too . 
or keep it as a cistern for foul toads To knot and gender in ! 	or keep it as a jug to hold dirty toads To knot and give birth in ! 
turn thy complexion there ,  Patience ,  thou young and roselipp'd cherubin ,  Ay ,  there ,  look grim as hell ! 	turn your face there ,  Patience ,  you young and rose - lipped archangel ,  Yes ,  there ,  look as grim as hell ! 
I hope my noble lord esteems me honest . 	I hope my noble lord believes I am faithful . 
o ,  ay ,  as summer flies are in the shambles ,  That quicken even with blowing . 	o ,  yes; as summer flies are in the swamps ,  That move quickly even with blowing . 
o thou weed ,  Who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet That the sense aches at thee ,  would thou hadst ne'er been born ! 	o you weed ,  Who are so lovely beautiful ,  and smell so sweet ,  That the sense aches at you ,  I wish you had never been born ! 
alas ,  what ignorant sin have I committed ? 	alas ,  what ignorant sin have I committed ? 
was this fair paper ,  this most goodly book ,  Made to write  “ whore ”  upon ? 	was this beautiful paper ,  this very excellent book ,  Made to write  “ whore ”  on ? 
what committed ? 	what sin committed ! 
committed ! 	committed ! 
o thou public commoner ! 	o you public commoner ! 
I should make very forges of my cheeks ,  That would to cinders burn up modesty ,  Did I but speak thy deeds . 	I should make very fires of my cheeks Burn modesty into ashes ,  If I only spoke your deeds . 
what committed ! 	what committed ! 
heaven stops the nose at it ,  and the moon winks; The bawdy wind ,  that kisses all it meets ,  Is hush'd within the hollow mine of earth ,  And will not hear it . 	heaven thumbs its nose at it ,  and the moon winks; The obscene wind that kisses all it meets Is quiet within the hollow tunnels of earth ,  And will not hear it . 
what committed . 	what committed ! 
Impudent strumpet ! 	Impudent prostitute ! 
by heaven ,  you do me wrong . 	by heaven ,  you do me wrong . 
are not you a strumpet ? 	aren’t you a prostitute ? 
no ,  as I am a Christian . 	no ,  as I am a Christian . 
If to preserve this vessel for my lord From any other foul unlawful touch Be not to be a strumpet ,  I am none . 	If to preserve this body for my lord From any other evil unlawful touch Is not to be a prostitute ,  I am none . 
what ,  not a whore ? 	what ,  not a whore ? 
no ,  as I shall be saved . 	no ,  as I shall be saved . 
Is't possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
o ,  heaven forgive us ! 	o ,  heaven forgive us ! 
you ,  mistress ,  That have the office opposite to Saint Peter ,  And keep the gate of hell ! 	you ,  mistress ,  That have the office next to Saint Peter ,  And keep the gate of hell ! 
you ,  you ,  ay ,  you ! 	you ,  you ,  yes ,  you ! 
alas ,  what does this gentleman conceive ? 	alas ,  what does this gentleman mean ? 
how do you ,  madam ? 	how are you ,  madam ? 
how do you ,  my good lady ? 	how are you ,  my good lady ? 
faith ,  half asleep . 	faith ,  half asleep . 
good madam ,  what's the matter with my lord ? 	good madam ,  what's the matter with my lord ? 
with who ? 	with who ? 
why ,  with my lord ,  madam . 	why ,  with my lord ,  madam . 
who is thy lord ? 	who is your lord ? 
he that is yours ,  sweet lady . 	he that is yours ,  sweet lady . 
I have none . 	I have none . 
do not talk to me ,  Emilia; I cannot weep ,  nor answer have I none But what should go by water . 	don’t talk to me ,  Emilia; I cannot weep ,  and I don’t have any answers ,  Except what should go by water . 
prithee ,  tonight Lay on my bed my wedding sheets . 	I beg you ,  tonight Lay my wedding sheets on my bed ,  remember ? 
remember; And call thy husband hither . 	and I’ll call your husband here . 
here's a change indeed ! 	here's a change indeed ! 
tis meet I should be used so ,  very meet . 	It’s right I should be used this way ,  very right . 
how have I been behaved ,  that he might stick The small'st opinion on my least misuse ? 	how have I behaved ,  that he might put The smallest opinion on my least misconduct ? 
what is your pleasure ,  madam ? 	what is your pleasure ,  madam ? 
how is't with you ? 	how is it with you ? 
I cannot tell . 	I cannot tell . 
what's the matter ,  lady ? 	what's the matter ,  lady ? 
alas ,  Iago ,  my lord hath so bewhored her ,  Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her ,  As true hearts cannot bear . 	alas ,  Iago ,  my lord has accused her of being a prostitute ,  Thrown such angry and horrible words at her ,  As true hearts cannot bear . 
am I that name ,  Iago ? 	am I that name ,  Iago ? 
what name ,  fair lady ? 	what name ,  beautiful lady ? 
such as she says my lord did say I was . 	such as she says my lord said I was . 
why did he so ? 	why did he do it ? 
I do not know; I am sure I am none such . 	I don’t know; I am sure I am no one like that . 
do not weep ,  do not weep . 	don’t weep ,  don’t weep . 
alas the day ! 	alas the day ! 
hath she forsook so many noble matches ,  Her father and her country and her friends ,  To be call'd whore ? 	she has abandoned so many noble matches ,  Her father ,  and her country ,  and her friends ,  To be called whore ? 
would it not make one weep ? 	wouldn’t it make one weep ? 
It is my wretched fortune . 	It is my wretched luck . 
how comes this trick upon him ? 	how did this trick come on him ? 
nay ,  heaven doth know . 	no ,  only heaven knows . 
I will be hang'd ,  if some eternal villain ,  Some busy and insinuating rogue ,  Some cogging cozening slave ,  to get some office ,  Have not devised this slander; I'll be hang'd else . 	I will be hanged ,  if some eternal villain ,  Some busy and insinuating rogue ,  Some scheming ,  lying slave ,  to get some job ,  Hasn’t made up this slander ,  or else ,  I'll be hanged . 
fie ,  there is no such man; it is impossible . 	damn ,  there is no such man; it is impossible . 
If any such there be ,  heaven pardon him ! 	If there is a man like that ,  heaven pardon him ! 
a halter pardon him ! 	a noose pardon him ! 
and hell gnaw his bones ! 	and hell chew on his bones ! 
why should he call her whore ? 	why should he call her whore ? 
who keeps her company ? 	who keeps her company ? 
what place ? 	what place ? 
what time ? 	what time ? 
what form ? 	what form ? 
what likelihood ? 	what likelihood ? 
the Moor's abused by some most villainous knave ,  Some base notorious knave ,  some scurvy fellow . 	the Moor's abused by some very villainous rogue ,  Some base notorious rogue ,  some scurvy fellow . 
o heaven ,  that such companions thou'ldst unfold ,  And put in every honest hand a whip To lash the rascals naked through the world Even from the east to the west ! 	o heaven ,  that you would expose such companions ,  And put a whip in every honest hand To whip the rascals naked throughout the world ,  Even from the east to the west ! 
speak within door . 	speak behind the door . 
o ,  fie upon them ! 	o ,  damn on them ! 
some such squire he was That turn'd your wit the seamy side without ,  And made you to suspect me with the Moor . 	he was some such squire That turned your wit inside out ,  And made you to suspect me of sleeping with the Moor . 
you are a fool; go to . 	you are a fool; be quiet . 
o good Iago ,  What shall I do to win my lord again ? 	alas ,  Iago ,  What shall I do to win my lord again ? 
good friend ,  go to him ,  for by this light of heaven ,  I know not how I lost him . 	good friend ,  go to him; because ,  by this light of heaven ,  I don’t know how I lost him . 
unkindness may do much ,  And his unkindness may defeat my life ,  But never taint my love . 	unkindness may do much ,  And his unkindness may kill my life ,  But never taint my love . 
If 'twere no other— 'Tis but so ,  I warrant . 	If it were any other… It’s only that ,  I guarantee it . 
hark ,  how these instruments summon to supper ! 	listen how these instruments summon us to supper ! 
how now ,  Roderigo ! 	what now ,  Roderigo ! 
I do not find that thou dealest justly with me . 	I don’t believe that you deal justly with me . 
what in the contrary ? 	on the contrary . 
every day thou daffest me with some device ,  Iago; and rather ,  as it seems to me now ,  keepest from me all conve -  niency than suppliest me with the least advantage of hope . 	every day you get me out of the way with some plan ,  Iago; and rather ,  as it seems to me now ,  keep from me all convenience than supplies me with the least advantage of hope . 
will you hear me ,  Roderigo ? 	will you listen to me ,  Roderigo ? 
faith ,  I have heard too much ,  for your words and per -  formances are no kin together . 	I’ve heard too much already ,  because your words and actions don’t agree with each other . 
you charge me most unjustly . 	you accuse me most unjustly . 
with nought but truth . 	with nothing but truth . 
I have wasted myself out of my means . 	I have wasted myself out of my money . 
the jewels you have had from me to deliver to Desdemona would half have corrupted a votarist . 	the jewels you have had from me to deliver to Desdemona would half have corrupted a nun . 
well ,  go to ,  very well . 	well; OK; very well . 
very well ! 	very well ! 
go to ! 	oK ! 
I cannot go to ,  man; nor 'tis not very well . 	I cannot  “ OK ,  ”  man and it is not very well . 
by this hand ,  I say 'tis very scurvy ,  and begin to find myself fopped in it . 	no ,  I say it is very contemptible ,  and begin to find myself fooled by it . 
very well . 	very well . 
I tell you 'tis not very well . 	I tell you it is not very well . 
you have said now . 	you have said so . 
ay ,  and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing . 	yes ,  and said nothing except that which I have every intention of doing . 
why ,  now I see there's mettle in thee; and even from this instant do build on thee a better opinion than ever before . 	why ,  now I see there's spirit in you; and even from this instant ,  you build a better opinion of yourself than ever before . 
give me thy hand ,  Roderigo . 	give me your hand ,  Roderigo . 
thou hast taken against me a most just exception; but yet ,  I protest ,  have dealt most directly in thy affair . 	you have taken a very just exception against me; but still ,  I protest ,  I have dealt very directly concerning your affair . 
It hath not appeared . 	It doesn’t seem so . 
I grant indeed it hath not appeared ,  and your suspicion is not without wit and judgement . 	I grant indeed it hasn’t seemed so ,  and your suspicion is not without wit and judgment . 
well ,  what is it ? 	well ,  what is it ? 
Is it within reason and compass ? 	Is it within reason and can be done ? 
sir ,  there is especial commission come from Venice to depute Cassio in Othello's place . 	sir ,  there is special commission come from Venice to put Cassio in Othello's place . 
Is that true ? 	Is that true ? 
why ,  then Othello and Desdemona return again to Venice . 	why ,  then Othello and Desdemona return again to Venice . 
o ,  no; he goes into Mauritania ,  and takes away with him the fair Desdemona ,  unless his abode be lingered here by some accident; wherein none can be so determinate as the removing of Cassio . 	o ,  no; He goes into Mauritania ,  and takes the beautiful Desdemona away with him ,  unless his living here can be delayed by some accident which no one can be so determined about removing of Cassio . 
how do you mean ,  removing of him ? 	how do you mean removing of him ? 
why ,  by making him uncapable of Othello's place; knocking out his brains . 	why ,  by making him incapable of Othello's place; knocking his brains out . 
and that you would have me to do ? 	and you would have me do that ? 
ay ,  if you dare do yourself a profit and a right . 	yes ,  if you dare to do yourself a profit and a right . 
he sups tonight with a harlotry ,  and thither will I go to him . 	he eats tonight with a harlot ,  and I will go there to him . 
he knows not yet of his honorable fortune . 	he doesn’t know yet about his honorable fortune . 
come ,  stand not amazed at it ,  but go along with me; I will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put it on him . 	come ,  stand not amazed at it ,  but go along with me; I will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to kill him . 
It is now high sup -  pertime ,  and the night grows to waste . 	It is now high dinner time ,  and the night is being wasted . 
about it . 	let’s go . 
I will hear further reason for this . 	I will hear further reason for this . 
and you shall be satisfied . 	and you shall be satisfied . 
I do beseech you ,  sir ,  trouble yourself no further . 	I do beg you ,  sir ,  trouble yourself no further . 
o ,  pardon me; ‘twill do me good to walk . 	o ,  pardon me; it will do me good to walk . 
madam ,  good night; I humbly thank your ladyship . 	madam ,  good night; I humbly thank your ladyship . 
your honor is most welcome . 	your honor is very welcome . 
will you walk ,  sir ? 	will you walk ,  sir ? 
o—Desdemona— My lord ? 	my lord ? 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will ,  my lord . 
how goes it now ? 	how goes it now ? 
he looks gentler than he did . 	he looks gentler than he did . 
dismiss me ? 	dismiss me ? 
It was his bidding; therefore ,  good Emilia ,  Give me my nightly wearing ,  and adieu . 	It was his bidding; therefore ,  good Emilia ,  Give me my nightgown ,  and goodbye . 
we must not now displease him . 	we must not now displease him . 
I would you had never seen him ! 	I wish you had never seen him ! 
so would not I . 	so do I . 
my love doth so approve him ,  That even his stubbornness ,  his checks ,  his frowns— Prithee ,  unpin me—have grace and favor in them . 	my love forgives him so ,  That even his stubbornness ,  his checks ,  his frowns ,  I beg you ,  unpin my hair ,  have grace and favor in them . 
I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed . 	I have put on those sheets you asked me to . 
all's one . 	makes no difference . 
good faith ,  how foolish are our minds ! 	good faith ,  how foolish are our minds ! 
If I do die before thee ,  prithee shroud me In one of those same sheets . 	If I die before you ,  I beg you ,  shroud me In one of those same sheets . 
come ,  come ,  you talk . 	come ,  come ,  how you talk . 
my mother had a maid call'd Barbara; She was in love ,  and he she loved proved mad And did forsake her . 	my mother had a maid called Barbara; She was in love; and the man she loved went crazy And left her . 
she had a song of  “ willow ” ; An old thing 'twas ,  but it express'd her fortune ,  And she died singing it . 	she had a song of  " willow ,  "  It was an old thing but it expressed her fortune ,  And she died singing it . 
prithee ,  dispatch . 	I beg you ,  leave . 
shall I go fetch your nightgown ? 	shall I go get your nightgown ? 
no ,  unpin me here . 	no ,  unpin my hair . 
this Lodovico is a proper man . 	this Lodovico is a proper man . 
a very handsome man . 	a very handsome man . 
he speaks well . 	he speaks well . 
I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot to Palestine for a touch of his nether lip . 	I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot to Palestine for a touch of his lower lip . 
the poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree ,  Sing all a green willow; Her hand on her bosom ,  her head on her knee ,  Sing willow ,  willow ,  willow . 	the poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree ,  Sing all a green willow; Her hand on her breast ,  her head on her knee ,  Sing willow ,  willow ,  willow . 
It's the wind . 	It's the wind . 
I call'd my love false love; but what said he then ? 	I called my love false love; but what said he then ? 
mine eyes do itch; Doth that bode weeping ? 	my eyes itch; Does that predict tears ? 
tis neither here nor there . 	it is neither here nor there . 
I have heard it said so . 	I have heard it said so . 
o ,  these men ,  these men ! 	o ,  these men ,  these men ! 
dost thou in conscience think—tell me ,  Emilia— That there be women do abuse their husbands In such gross kind ? 	do you in conscience think ,  tell me ,  Emilia ,  That there are women who abuse their husbands In such a disgusting way ? 
there be some such ,  no question . 	there are some such ,  no doubt . 
wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ? 	would you do such a deed for all the world ? 
why ,  would not you ? 	why ,  wouldn’t you ? 
no ,  by this heavenly light ! 	no ,  by this heavenly light ! 
nor I neither by this heavenly light; I might do't as well i' the dark . 	nor I neither by this heavenly light; I might do it as well in the dark . 
wouldst thou do such a thing for all the world ? 	would you do such a deed for all the world ? 
the world's a huge thing; it is a great price For a final vice . 	the world's a huge thing; it is a great price to pay For a small sin . 
In troth ,  I think thou wouldst not . 	In truth ,  I think you wouldn’t . 
In troth ,  I think I should ,  and undo't when I had done . 	In truth ,  I think I should; and undo it when I had done . 
marry ,  I would not do such a thing for a jointring ,  nor for measures of lawn ,  nor for gowns ,  petticoats ,  nor caps ,  nor any petty exhibition; but ,  for the whole world why ,  who would not make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch ? 	by Mary ,  I wouldn’t do such a thing for a gold ring ,  or for measures of soft cotton ,  or for gowns ,  petticoats ,  or caps ,  or any little show; but ,  for the whole world  - why ,  who wouldn’t unfaithful to her husband to make him a king ? 
I should venture purgatory for't . 	I would risk purgatory for it . 
beshrew me ,  if I would do such a wrong For the whole world . 	curse me ,  if I would do such a wrong thing for the whole world . 
why ,  the wrong is but a wrong i' the world; and hav -  ing the world for your labor ,  'tis a wrong in your own world ,  and you might quickly make it right . 	why ,  the wrong is but a wrong in the world; and having the world for your work ,  it is a wrong in your own world ,  and you might quickly make it right . 
I do not think there is any such woman . 	I don’t think there is any such woman . 
yes ,  a dozen ,  and as many to the vantage as would store the world they played for . 	yes ,  a dozen; and as many to profit as would store the world they played for . 
what is it that they do When they change us for others ? 	what is it that they do when they exchange us for others ? 
Is it sport ? 	Is it sport ? 
I think it doth . 	I think it does . 
Is't frailty that thus errs ? 	Is it frailty makes mistakes like this ? 
It is so too . 	It’s so too . 
and have not we affections ,  Desires for sport ,  and frailty ,  as men have ? 	and haven’t we got affections ,  desires for sport ,  and frailty ,  as men have ? 
good night ,  good night . 	good - night ,  good - night . 
heaven me such uses send ,  Not to pick bad from bad ,  but by bad mend ! 	heaven me send such usage ,  Not to pick bad from bad ,  but to change my ways by bad ! 
quick ,  quick; fear nothing; I'll be at thy elbow . 	quickly ,  quickly; fear nothing; I'll be at your elbow . 
It makes us ,  or it mars us; think on that ,  And fix most firm thy resolution . 	It makes us or it ruins us; think on that ,  And make your resolution very firm . 
be near at hand; I may miscarry in't . 	be near at hand; I mess it up . 
forth ,  my sword; he dies . 	go forth ,  my sword; he dies . 
I have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense ,  And he grows angry . 	I have rubbed this young pimple almost to the purpose ,  And he grows angry . 
now ,  whether he kill Cassio ,  Or Cassio him ,  or each do kill the other ,  Every way makes my gain . 	now ,  whether or not he kills Cassio ,  Or Cassio him ,  or each do kill the other ,  I gain in every way . 
live Roderigo ,  He calls me to a restitution large Of gold and jewels that I bobb'd from him ,  As gifts to Desdemona; It must not be . 	live ,  Roderigo ,  He calls me to give back all Of gold and jewels that I robbed from him ,  As gifts to Desdemona; It can’t happen . 
If Cassio do remain ,  He hath a daily beauty in his life That makes me ugly; and besides ,  the Moor May unfold me to him; there stand I in much peril: No ,  he must die . 	If Cassio lives ,  He has a daily beauty in his life That makes me ugly; and besides ,  the Moor May disclose me to him; I stand there in great danger; No ,  he must die . 
I know his gait; 'tis he . 	I know his walk; it is he . 
villain ,  thou diest ! 	villain ,  you die ! 
o ,  I am slain ! 	o ,  I am slain ! 
I am maim'd forever . 	I am maimed forever . 
help ,  ho ! 	help ,  ho ! 
murder ! 	murder ! 
murder ! 	murder ! 
o ,  villain that I am ! 	o ,  villain that I am ! 
It is even so . 	It is even so . 
o ,  help ,  ho ! 	o ,  help ,  ho ! 
light ! 	light ! 
a surgeon ! 	a surgeon ! 
tis he . 	It is he . 
o brave Iago ,  honest and just ,  That hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong ! 	o brave Iago ,  honest and just ,  That have such noble sense of your friend's wrong ! 
strumpet ,  I come ! 	prostitute ,  I’m coming ! 
forth of my heart those charms ,  thine eyes ,  are blotted; Thy bed ,  lust - stain'd shall with lust's blood be spotted . 	those charms ,  your eyes ,  are erased from my heart; Your bed ,  lust - stained ,  shall be spotted with lust's blood . 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  ho ! 
no watch ? 	no guard ? 
no passage ? 	no safety ? 
murder ! 	murder ! 
murder ! 	murder ! 
tis some mischance; the cry is very direful . 	It is some misfortune; the cry is very sorrowful . 
o ,  help ! 	o ,  help ! 
hark ! 	listen ! 
o wretched villain ! 	o wretched villain ! 
nobody come ? 	nobody comes ? 
then shall I bleed to death . 	then I shall bleed to death . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
here's one comes in his shirt ,  with light and weapons . 	here's someone comes in his shirt ,  with light and weapons . 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
did not you hear a cry ? 	didn’t you hear a cry ? 
here ,  here ! 	here ,  here ! 
for heaven's sake ,  help me ! 	for heaven's sake ,  help me ! 
what's the matter ? 	what's the matter ? 
this is Othello's ancient ,  as I take it . 	this is Othello's ensign ,  as I take it . 
the same indeed; a very valiant fellow . 	the same indeed; a very valiant fellow . 
what are you here that cry so grievously ? 	who are you here that cry so grievously ? 
Iago ? 	Iago ? 
o ,  I am spoil'd ,  undone by villains ! 	o ,  I am attacked ,  undone by villains ! 
give me some help . 	give me some help . 
o me ,  lieutenant ! 	o me ,  lieutenant ! 
what villains have done this ? 	what villains have done this ? 
I think that one of them is hereabout ,  And cannot make away . 	I think that one of them is still around here ,  And cannot make a getaway . 
o treacherous villains ! 	o treacherous villains ! 
what are you there ? 	who are you there ? 
come in and give some help . 	come in and give some help . 
o ,  help me here ! 	o ,  help me here ! 
that's one of them . 	that's one of them . 
o murderous slave ! 	o murderous slave ! 
o villain ! 	o villain ! 
o damn'd Iago ! 	o damned Iago ! 
o inhuman dog ! 	o inhuman dog ! 
kill men i' the dark ! 	kill men in the dark ! 
where be these bloody thieves ? 	where are these bloody thieves ? 
how silent is this town ! 	how silent is this town ! 
ho ! 	ho ! 
murder ! 	murder ! 
murder ! 	murder ! 
what may you be ? 	what are you ? 
are you of good or evil ? 	are you of good or evil ? 
as you shall prove us ,  praise us . 	as you shall prove us to be ,  praise us . 
signior Lodovico ? 	signior Lodovico ? 
he ,  sir . 	he ,  sir . 
I cry you mercy . 	I be your mercy . 
here's Cassio hurt by villains . 	here's Cassio ,  hurt by villains . 
cassio ? 	cassio ! 
how is't ,  brother ? 	how is it ,  brother ? 
my leg is cut in two . 	my leg is cut in two . 
marry ,  heaven forbid ! 	by Mary ,  heaven forbid ! 
what is the matter ,  ho ? 	what is the matter ,  ho ? 
who is't that cried ? 	who is it that cried ? 
who is't that cried ! 	who is it that cried ! 
o my dear Cassio ,  my sweet Cassio ! 	o my dear Cassio ,  my sweet Cassio ! 
o Cassio ,  Cassio ,  Cassio ! 	o Cassio ,  Cassio ,  Cassio ! 
o notable strumpet ! 	o notable prostitute ! 
cassio ,  may you suspect Who they should be that have thus mangled you ? 	cassio ,  do you any idea Who they are that have mangled you like this ? 
no . 	no . 
lend me a garter . 	lend me a garter . 
so . 	so . 
o ,  for a chair ,  To bear him easily hence ! 	o ,  for a chair ,  To carry him easily from here ! 
alas ,  he faints ! 	alas ,  he faints ! 
o Cassio ,  Cassio ,  Cassio ! 	o Cassio ,  Cassio ,  Cassio ! 
gentlemen all ,  I do suspect this trash To be a party in this injury . 	gentlemen all ,  I suspect this trash To be a party to this injury . 
patience awhile ,  good Cassio . 	patience awhile ,  good Cassio . 
come ,  come; Lend me a light . 	come ,  come; Lend me a light . 
know we this face or no ? 	do we know this face or not ? 
alas ,  my friend and my dear countryman Roderigo ? 	alas ,  my friend and my dear countryman Roderigo ? 
no—yes ,  sure . 	no . 
o heaven ! 	yes ,  surely; O heaven ! 
roderigo . 	roderigo . 
what ,  of Venice ? 	what ,  of Venice ? 
even he ,  sir . 	even he ,  sir . 
did you know him ? 	did you know him ? 
know him ! 	know him ! 
ay . 	yes . 
signior Gratiano ? 	signior Gratiano ? 
I cry you gentle pardon; These bloody accidents must excuse my manners ,  That so neglected you . 	I beg your gentle pardon; These bloody accidents must excuse my manners ,  That so neglected you . 
o ,  a chair ,  a chair ! 	o ,  a chair ,  a chair ! 
roderigo ! 	roderigo ! 
he ,  he ,  ’tis he . 	he ,  he ,  it is he . 
some good man bear him carefully from hence; I'll fetch the general's surgeon . 	some good men carry him carefully from here; I'll fetch the general's surgeon . 
for you ,  mistress ,  Save you your labor . 	for you ,  mistress ,  save you your labor . 
none in the world; nor do I know the man . 	none in the world; I don’t know the man . 
what ,  look you pale ? 	what ,  do you look pale ? 
o ,  bear him out o' the air . 	o ,  carry him out of the air . 
stay you ,  good gentlemen . 	stay you ,  good gentlemen . 
look you pale ,  mistress ? 	do you Look pale ,  mistress ? 
do you perceive the gastness of her eye ? 	do you see the ghastliness of her eye ? 
nay ,  if you stare ,  we shall hear more anon . 	no ,  if you stare ,  we shall hear more soon . 
behold her well; I pray you ,  look upon her . 	watch her well; I beg you ,  look after her . 
do you see ,  gentlemen ? 	do you see ,  gentlemen ? 
nay ,  guiltiness will speak ,  Though tongues were out of use . 	no ,  guiltiness will speak Even if tongues are out of use . 
las ,  what's the matter ? 	alas ,  what's the matter ? 
what's the matter ,  husband ? 	what's the matter ,  husband ? 
alas ,  good gentleman ! 	alas ,  good gentleman ! 
alas ,  good Cassio ! 	alas ,  good Cassio ! 
this is the fruit of whoring . 	this is the fruit of whoring . 
prithee ,  Emilia ,  Go know of Cassio where he supp'd tonight . 	I beg you ,  Emilia ,  Go find out about Cassio ,  where he had dinner tonight . 
what ,  do you shake at that ? 	what ,  you shake at that ? 
he supp'd at my house; but I therefore shake not . 	he dined at my house; but I don’t shake because of that . 
o ,  did he so ? 	o ,  did he ? 
I charge you ,  go with me . 	I charge you ,  go with me . 
fie ,  fie upon thee ,  strumpet ! 	damn ,  damn you ,  prostitute ! 
I am no strumpet ,  but of life as honest As you that thus abuse me . 	I am no prostitute ,  but have life as honest As you that abuse me like this . 
as I ! 	as I ! 
foh ! 	damn ! 
fie upon thee ! 	damn you ! 
kind gentlemen ,  let's go see poor Cassio dress'd . 	kind gentlemen ,  let's go see poor Cassio bandaged . 
come ,  mistress ,  you must tell's another tale . 	come ,  mistress ,  you must tell us another tale . 
emilia ,  run you to the citadel ,  And tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd ! 	emilia ,  run to the fortress ,  And tell my lord and lady what has happened . 
will you go on ? 	will you go ahead ? 
aside . 	aside . 
this is the night That either makes me or fordoes me quite . 	this is the night That either makes me or breaks me . 
It is the cause . 	It is the cause . 
yet I'll not shed her blood ,  Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow And smooth as monumental alabaster . 	still I won’t shed her blood; Or scar that skin of hers whiter than snow ,  And as smooth as the marble that makes monuments . 
yet she must die ,  else she'll betray more men . 	yet she must die ,  or else she'll betray more men . 
put out the light ,  and then put out the light . 	put out the light ,  and then put out the light . 
o ,  balmy breath ,  that dost almost persuade Justice to break her sword ! 	o ,  balmy breath ,  that almost persuades Justice to break her sword ! 
one more ,  one more; Be thus when thou art dead ,  and I will kill thee ,  And love thee after . 	one more ,  one more; Be like this when you are dead ,  and I will kill you ,  And love you after . 
one more ,  and this the last: So sweet was ne'er so fatal . 	one more ,  and this is the last; So sweet was never so fatal . 
she wakes . 	she awakes . 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
othello ? 	othello ? 
ay ,  Desdemona . 	yes ,  Desdemona . 
will you come to bed ,  my lord ? 	will you come to bed ,  my lord ? 
have you pray'd tonight ,  Desdemona ? 	have you prayed tonight ,  Desdemona ? 
ay ,  my lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
If you bethink yourself of any crime Unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace ,  Solicit for it straight . 	If you can think of any crime Not yet confessed to heaven and grace ,  Do it right away . 
alas ,  my lord ,  what may you mean by that ? 	alas ,  my lord ,  what do you mean by that ? 
I would not kill thy soul . 	I would not kill your soul . 
talk you of killing ? 	you talk about killing ? 
ay ,  I do . 	yes ,  I do . 
then heaven have mercy on me ! 	then heaven Have mercy on me ! 
amen ,  with all my heart ! 	amen ,  with all my heart ! 
If you say so ,  I hope you will not kill me . 	If you say so ,  I hope you will not kill me . 
hum ! 	hum ! 
and yet I fear you ,  for you are fatal then When your eyes roll so . 	and yet I fear you; because you are deadly When your eyes roll so . 
why I should fear I know not ,  Since guiltiness I know not; but yet I feel I fear . 	why I should fear ,  I don’t know ,  Since I don’t know guiltiness ,  but yet I feel I fear . 
think on thy sins . 	think on your sins . 
they are loves I bear to you . 	they are loves I bear to you . 
ay ,  and for that thou diest . 	yes ,  and for that you die . 
that death's unnatural that kills for loving . 	that death is unnatural that kills for loving . 
alas ,  why gnaw you so your nether lip ? 	alas ,  why do you chew your nether lip so ? 
peace ,  and be still ! 	peace ,  and be quiet ! 
I will so . 	I will do so . 
what's the matter ? 	what's the matter ? 
that handkerchief which I so loved and gave thee Thou gavest to Cassio . 	that handkerchief which I so loved and gave you ,  You gave to Cassio . 
no ,  by my life and soul ! 	no ,  by my life and soul ! 
send for the man ,  and ask him . 	send for the man and ask him . 
sweet soul ,  take heed ,  Take heed of perjury; thou are on thy deathbed . 	sweet soul ,  take care ,  Take care of perjury; you are on your death - bed . 
ay ,  but not yet to die . 	yes ,  but not to die yet . 
thou art to die . 	you are to die . 
then Lord have mercy on me ! 	then ,  Lord have mercy on me ! 
I say ,  amen . 	I say ,  amen . 
and have you mercy too ! 	and you have mercy too ! 
I never did Offend you in my life; never loved Cassio But with such general warranty of heaven As I might love . 	I never Offended you in my life; never loved Cassio Except with such general lawfulness of heaven As I might love . 
I never gave him token . 	I never gave him gifts . 
by heaven ,  I saw my handkerchief in ‘s hand . 	by heaven ,  I saw my handkerchief in his hand . 
o perjured woman ! 	o lying woman ! 
he found it then; I never gave it him . 	he found it then; I never gave it to him . 
he hath confess'd . 	he has confessed . 
what ,  my lord ? 	what ,  my lord ? 
that he hath used thee . 	that he has used you . 
how ? 	how ? 
unlawfully ? 	unlawfully ? 
ay . 	yes . 
he will not say so . 	he will not say so . 
no ,  his mouth is stopp'd; Honest Iago hath ta'en order for't . 	no ,  his mouth is stopped; Honest Iago has taken orders for it . 
o ,  my fear interprets ! 	o ,  my fear interprets ! 
what ,  is he dead ? 	what ,  is he dead ? 
had all his hairs been lives ,  my great revenge Had stomach for them all . 	had all his hairs been lives ,  my great revenge Had stomach for them all . 
alas ,  he is betray'd ,  and I undone ! 	alas ,  he is betrayed ,  and I have no hope ! 
out ,  strumpet ! 	out ,  prostitute ! 
weep'st thou for him to my face ? 	you weep for him to my face ? 
o ,  banish me ,  my lord ,  but kill me not ! 	o ,  banish me ,  my lord ,  but don’t kill me ! 
down ,  strumpet ! 	down ,  prostitute ! 
kill me tomorrow; let me live tonight ! 	kill me tomorrow; let me live tonight ! 
nay ,  if you strive— But half an hour ! 	no ,  if you strive… But half an hour ! 
being done ,  there is no pause . 	being done ,  there is no pause . 
but while I say one prayer ! 	but while I say one prayer ! 
It is too late . 	It is too late . 
my lord ,  my lord ! 	my lord ,  my lord ! 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  ho ! 
my lord ,  my lord ! 	my lord ,  my lord ! 
what noise is this ? 	what noise is this ? 
not dead ? 	not dead ? 
not yet quite dead ? 	not yet quite dead ? 
I that am cruel am yet merciful; I would not have thee linger in thy pain . 	I who is cruel am yet merciful; I would not have you linger in your pain . 
so ,  so . 	so ,  so . 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  ho ! 
my lord ,  my lord ! 	my lord ,  my lord ! 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
o ,  good my lord ,  I would speak a word with you ! 	o ,  my good lord ,  I would speak with you ! 
by and by . 	by and by . 
she's dead . 	she's dead . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
no more moving ? 	no more moving ? 
still as the grave . 	as still as the grave . 
shall she come in ? 	shall she come in ? 
were't good ? 	were it good ? 
I think she stirs again . 	I think she moves again . 
no . 	no . 
what's best to do ? 	what's best to do ? 
If she come in ,  she'll sure speak to my wife . 	If she comes in ,  she'll surely speak to my wife . 
my wife ! 	my wife ! 
my wife ! 	my wife ! 
what wife ? 	what wife ? 
I have no wife . 	I have no wife . 
o ,  insupportable ! 	o ,  unbelievable ! 
o heavy hour ! 	o heavy hour ! 
methinks it should be now a huge eclipse Of sun and moon ,  and that the affrighted globe Should yawn at alteration . 	I think there should now be a huge eclipse Of sun and moon ,  and that the frightened globe Should yawn at changes . 
I do beseech you That I may speak with you ,  O ,  good my lord ! 	I beg you To let me speak with you ,  O ,  my good lord ! 
I had forgot thee . 	I had forgotten about you . 
o ,  come in ,  Emilia . 	o ,  come in ,  Emilia . 
soft ,  by and by . 	softly ,  by and by . 
let me the curtains draw . 	let me draw the curtains . 
where art thou ? 	where are you ? 
what's the matter with thee now ? 	what's the matter with you now ? 
o ,  my good lord ,  yonder's foul murders done ! 	o ,  my good lord ,  there's foul murders done over there ! 
what ,  now ? 	what ,  now ? 
but now ,  my lord . 	just now ,  my lord . 
It is the very error of the moon; She comes more nearer earth than she was wont And makes men mad . 	It is the very mistake of the moon; She comes more nearer earth than she usually does And makes men mad . 
cassio ,  my lord ,  hath kill'd a young Venetian Call'd Roderigo . 	cassio ,  my lord ,  has killed a young Venetian Called Roderigo . 
roderigo kill'd ? 	roderigo killed ? 
and Cassio kill'd ? 	and Cassio killed ? 
no ,  Cassio is not kill'd . 	no ,  Cassio is not killed . 
not Cassio kill'd ! 	cassio not killed ! 
then murder 's out of tune ,  And sweet revenge grows harsh . 	then murder's out of tune ,  And sweet revenge grows harsh . 
o ,  falsely ,  falsely murdered ! 	o ,  falsely ,  falsely murdered ! 
alas ,  what cry is that ? 	alas ,  what cry is that ? 
that ? 	that ! 
what ? 	what ? 
out ,  and alas ! 	out ,  and alas ! 
that was my lady's voice . 	that was my lady's voice . 
help ! 	help ! 
help ,  ho ! 	help ,  ho ! 
help ! 	help ! 
o lady ,  speak again ! 	o lady ,  speak again ! 
sweet Desdemona ! 	sweet Desdemona ! 
o sweet mistress ,  speak ! 	o sweet mistress ,  speak ! 
a guiltless death I die . 	I die an innocent death . 
o ,  who hath done this deed ? 	o ,  who has done this deed ? 
nobody; I myself . 	nobody; I myself . 
o ,  farewell ! 	o ,  farewell ! 
why ,  how should she be murdered ? 	why should she be murdered ? 
alas ,  who knows ? 	alas ,  who knows ? 
you heard her say herself ,  it was not I . 	you heard her say it herself it wasn’t I . 
o ,  the more angel she ,  And you the blacker devil ! 	o ,  she is more the angel ,  And you the blacker devil ! 
she turn'd to folly ,  and she was a whore . 	she turned to folly ,  and she was a whore . 
thou dost belie her ,  and thou art a devil . 	you lie about her ,  and you are a devil . 
she was false as water . 	she was false as water . 
thou art rash as fire ,  to say That she was false . 	you are impatient as fire ,  to say That she was false . 
o ,  she was heavenly true ! 	o ,  she was heavenly true ! 
cassio did top her; ask thy husband else . 	cassio screwed her; ask your husband otherwise . 
o ,  I were damn'd beneath all depth in hell ,  But that I did proceed upon just grounds To this extremity . 	o ,  I was damned beneath all the depths of hell ,  And I proceeded on just grounds To this extremity . 
thy husband knew it all . 	your husband knew it all . 
my husband ! 	my husband ! 
thy husband . 	your husband . 
that she was false to wedlock ? 	that she was unfaithful in marriage ? 
ay ,  with Cassio . 	yes ,  with Cassio . 
nay ,  had she been true ,  If heaven would make me such another world Of one entire and perfect chrysolite ,  I'ld not have sold her for it . 	no ,  had she been true ,  If heaven would make me such another world Of one entire and perfect crystal ,  I wouldn’t have sold her for it . 
my husband ! 	my husband ! 
my husband ? 	my husband ! 
what needs this iteration ,  woman ? 	why do you repeat it ,  woman ? 
I say thy husband . 	I said your husband . 
o mistress ,  villainy hath made mocks with love ! 	o mistress ,  villainy has made fun with love ! 
my husband say that she was false ! 	my husband said that she was unfaithful ! 
he ,  woman; I say thy husband . 	he ,  woman; I say your husband . 
dost understand the word ? 	do you understand the word ? 
my friend ,  thy husband ,  honest ,  honest Iago . 	my friend ,  your husband ,  honest ,  honest Iago . 
If he say so ,  may his pernicious soul Rot half a grain a day ! 	If he said so ,  may his evil soul Rot half a grain a day ! 
he lies to the heart . 	he lies to the heart . 
she was too fond of her most filthy bargain . 	she was too fond of her very filthy bargain . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
peace ,  you were best . 	peace ,  you’d better stop . 
thou hast not half that power to do me harm As I have to be hurt . 	you have not half that power to do me harm As I have to be hurt . 
o gull ! 	o fool ! 
o dolt ! 	o idiot ! 
as ignorant as dirt ! 	as stupid as dirt ! 
thou hast done a deed— I care not for thy sword; I'll make thee known ,  Though I lost twenty lives . 	you have done a deed ,  I don’t care about your sword; I'll make you famous ,  Although I lose twenty lives . 
help ! 	help ! 
help ,  ho ! 	help ,  ho ! 
help ! 	help ! 
the Moor hath kill'd my mistress ! 	the Moor has killed my mistress ! 
murder ,  murder ! 	murder ,  murder ! 
what is the matter ? 	what is the matter ? 
how now ,  general ? 	what’s wrong ,  general ! 
o ,  are you come ,  Iago ? 	o ,  are you here ,  Iago ? 
you have done well ,  That men must lay their murders on your neck . 	you have done well ,  That men must lay their murders on your neck . 
what is the matter ? 	what is the matter ? 
speak ,  for my heart is full . 	speak ,  because my heart is full . 
I told him what I thought ,  and told no more Than what he found himself was apt and true . 	I told him what I thought; and told no more Than what he himself discovered was right and true . 
but did you ever tell him she was false ? 	but did you ever tell him she was unfaithful ? 
I did . 	I did . 
you told a lie ,  an odious ,  damned lie; Upon my soul ,  a lie ,  a wicked lie ! 	you told a lie; an stinking ,  damned lie; On my soul ,  a lie; a wicked lie . 
she false with Cassio ? 	she unfaithful with Cassio ! 
did you say with Cassio ? 	did you say with Cassio ? 
with Cassio ,  mistress . 	with Cassio ,  mistress . 
go to ,  charm your tongue . 	watch it ,  control your tongue . 
I will not charm my tongue; I am bound to speak . 	I will not control my tongue; I have to speak . 
my mistress here lies murdered in her bed . 	my mistress lies here murdered in her bed . 
o heavens forfend ! 	o heavens forbid ! 
and your reports have set the murder on . 	and your stories have egged the murder on . 
tis a strange truth . 	It is a strange truth . 
o monstrous act ! 	o monstrous act ! 
villainy ,  villainy ,  villainy ! 	villainy ,  villainy ,  villainy ! 
I think upon't ,  I think ,  I smell't ,  O villainy ! 	I think about it ,  I think ,  I smell it ; O villainy ! 
what ,  are you mad ? 	what ,  are you crazy ? 
I charge you ,  get you home . 	I order you ,  go home . 
perchance ,  Iago ,  I will ne'er go home . 	maybe ,  Iago ,  I will never go home . 
o ! 	o ! 
o ! 	o ! 
o ! 	o ! 
nay ,  lay thee down and roar; For thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent That e'er did lift up eye . 	no ,  lay down and roar; Because you have killed the sweetest innocent That ever lifted open eyes . 
o ,  she was foul ! 	o ,  she was evil ! 
I scarce did know you ,  uncle; there lies your niece ,  Whose breath indeed these hands have newly stopp'd . 	I scarcely knew you ,  uncle; there lies your niece ,  Whose breath ,  indeed ,  these hands have just stopped . 
I know this act shows horrible and grim . 	I know this act looks horrible and grim . 
poor Desdemon ! 	poor Desdemona ! 
I saw it in his hand: It was a handkerchief ,  an antique token My father gave my mother . 	It was a handkerchief ,  an antique token My father gave my mother . 
o heaven ! 	o heaven ! 
o heavenly powers ! 	o heavenly powers ! 
hold your peace . 	come ,  hold your peace . 
twill out ,  'twill . 	It will be out ,  it will be out . 
I peace ! 	me quiet ! 
be wise ,  and get you home . 	be wise ,  and go home . 
I will not . 	I will not . 
fie ! 	damn ! 
your sword upon a woman ? 	your sword on a woman ? 
o thou dull Moor ! 	o you stupid Moor ! 
that handkerchief thou speak'st of I found by fortune and did give my husband; For often with a solemn earnestness ,  More than indeed belong'd to such a trifle ,  He begg'd of me to steal it . 	that handkerchief you speak of I found by luck and gave it to my husband; Because ,  he begged me to steal it Often with a solemn earnestness ,  More than ,  indeed ,  belonged to such a trifle . 
villainous whore ! 	villainous whore ! 
she give it Cassio ? 	she give it Cassio ! 
no ,  alas ,  I found it ,  And I did give't my husband . 	no ,  alas ,  I found it ,  And I gave it to my husband . 
filth ,  thou liest ! 	filth ,  you lie ! 
by heaven ,  I do not ,  I do not ,  gentlemen . 	by heaven ,  I don’t ,  I don’t ,  gentlemen . 
o murderous coxcomb ! 	o murderous simpleton ! 
what should such a fool Do with so good a wife ? 	what should such a fool Do with so good a wife ? 
are there not stones in heaven But what serve for thunder ? 	are there no stones in heaven To serve as thunder ? 
precious villain ! 	precious villain ! 
the woman falls; sure ,  he hath kill'd his wife . 	the woman falls; surely ,  he has killed his wife . 
ay ,  ay ! 	yes ,  yes . 
o ,  lay me by my mistress’ side . 	o ,  lay me by my mistress' side . 
he's gone ,  but his wife's kill'd . 	he's gone ,  but his wife's killed . 
tis a notorious villain . 	he is a notorious villain . 
I'll after that same villain ,  For 'tis a damned slave . 	I'll go after that same villain ,  Because he is a damned slave . 
I am not valiant neither ,  But every puny whipster gets my sword . 	I am not valiant either ,  But every puny man with a whip gets my sword . 
but why should honor outlive honesty ? 	but why should honor outlive honesty ? 
let it go all . 	let it all go . 
what did thy song bode ,  lady ? 	what did your song predict ,  lady ? 
hark ,  canst thou hear me ? 	listen ,  can you hear me ? 
I will play the swan ,  And die in music . 	I will play the swan ,  And die in music . 
sings . 	sings . 
moor ,  she was chaste; she loved thee ,  cruel Moor; So come my soul to bliss ,  as I speak true; So speaking as I think ,  I die ,  I die . 	moor ,  she was chaste; she loved you ,  cruel Moor; So my soul goes to heaven ,  because I tell the truth; So speaking as I think ,  I die ,  I die . 
uncle ,  I must come forth . 	uncle ,  I must come out . 
If thou attempt it ,  it will cost thee dear: Thou hast no weapon ,  and perforce must suffer . 	you have no weapon ,  and must be forced to suffer . 
look in upon me then ,  and speak with me ,  Or ,  naked as I am ,  I will assault thee . 	look in on me then ,  and speak with me ,  Or ,  naked as I am ,  I will attack you . 
what is the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
behold ,  I have a weapon; A better never did itself sustain Upon a soldier's thigh . 	behold ,  I have a weapon; A better one never sustained itself On a soldier's thigh . 
I have seen the day That with this little arm and this good sword I have made my way through more impediments Than twenty times your stop . 	I have seen the day That I have made my way through more impediments With this little arm and this good sword Than you could stop twenty times . 
but ,  O vain boast ! 	but ,  O vain boast ! 
who can control his fate ? 	who can control his fate ? 
tis not so now . 	It is not so now . 
be not afraid ,  though you do see me weapon'd; Here is my journey's end ,  here is my butt And very seamark of my utmost sail . 	don’t be afraid although you see me armed ,  Here is my journey's end ,  here is my bottom And very sea - mark of my last ship . 
do you go back dismay'd ? 	do you go back dismayed ? 
tis a lost fear: Man but a rush against Othello's breast ,  And he retires . 	It is a lost fear; Man can only rush against Othello's breast ,  And he retires . 
where should Othello go ? 	where should Othello go ? 
now ,  how dost thou look now ? 	now ,  how do you look now ? 
o ill - starr'd wench ! 	o ill - starred wench ! 
pale as thy smock ! 	pale as your smock ! 
when we shall meet at compt ,  This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven ,  And fiends will snatch at it . 	when we shall meet at elegance ,  This look of yours will hurl my soul from heaven ,  And devil will scratch at it . 
o cursed ,  cursed slave ! 	o cursed ,  cursed slave ! 
whip me ,  ye devils ,  From the possession of this heavenly sight ! 	whip me ,  you devils ,  From the possession of this heavenly sight ! 
blow me about in winds ! 	blow me about in winds ! 
roast me in sulphur ! 	roast me in fires of sulphur ! 
wash me in steepdown gulfs of liquid fire ! 	wash me in steep - down gulfs of liquid fire ! 
o Desdemon ! 	o Desdemon ! 
dead ,  Desdemon ! 	dead ,  Desdemon ! 
dead ! 	dead ! 
where is this rash and most unfortunate man ? 	where is this impatient and very unfortunate man ? 
where is that viper ? 	where is that snake ? 
bring the villain forth . 	bring the villain out . 
I look down towards his feet; but that's a fable . 	I look down towards his feet; but that's a fable . 
If that thou be'st a devil ,  I cannot kill thee . 	If you are a devil ,  I cannot kill you . 
wrench his sword from him . 	grab his sword from him . 
I bleed ,  sir ,  but not kill'd . 	I bleed ,  sir ,  but I am not killed . 
I am not sorry neither . 	I am not sorry either . 
I'ld have thee live ,  For ,  in my sense ,  'tis happiness to die . 	I'd have you live; Because ,  in my thinking ,  it is happiness to die . 
o thou Othello ,  that wert once so good ,  What shall be said to thee ? 	o you Othello ,  that was once so good ,  Fallen in the plan of a damned slave ,  What shall be said to you ? 
why ,  anything; An honorable murderer ,  if you will ,  For nought did I in hate ,  but all in honor . 	why ,  anything; An honorable murderer ,  if you will; Because nothing I did was in hate ,  but done all in honor . 
this wretch hath part confess'd his villainy . 	this wretch has part confessed his villainy . 
did you and he consent in Cassio's death ? 	did you and he agree to Cassio's death ? 
ay . 	yes . 
dear general ,  I never gave you cause . 	dear general ,  I never gave you any reason . 
I do believe it ,  and I ask your pardon . 	I do believe it ,  and I ask your pardon . 
will you ,  I pray ,  demand that demidevil Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body ? 	will you ,  I beg you ,  demand that demi - devil To tell why he has trapped my soul and body like this ? 
from this time forth I never will speak word . 	from this time forward ,  I’ll never speak word . 
what ,  not to pray ? 	what ,  not even to pray ? 
torments will ope your lips . 	torture will open your lips . 
well ,  thou dost best . 	well ,  you do what’s best . 
sir ,  you shall understand what hath befall'n ,  Which ,  as I think ,  you know not . 	sir ,  you shall understand what has happened ,  Which ,  as I think ,  you don’t know . 
here is a letter Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo ,  And here another . 	here is a letter Found in the pocket of the murdered Roderigo ,  And here another . 
the one of them imports The death of Cassio to be undertook By Roderigo . 	one of them shows that The death of Cassio was to be undertaken By Roderigo . 
o villain ! 	o villain ! 
most heathenish and most gross ! 	very heathenish and very gross ! 
now here's another discontented paper ,  Found in his pocket too; and this ,  it seems ,  Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain; But that ,  belike ,  Iago in the interim Came in and satisfied him . 	now here's another unhappy document ,  Found in his pocket too; and this ,  it seems ,  That Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain; But that ,  very likely ,  Iago in the meantime Came in and satisfied him . 
o the pernicious caitiff ! 	o the pernicious wretch ! 
how came you ,  Cassio ,  by that handkerchief That was my wife's ? 	cassio ,  how did you come by that handkerchief That was my wife's ? 
I found it in my chamber; And he himself confess'd but even now That there he dropp'd it for a special purpose Which wrought to his desire . 	I found it in my bedroom; And he himself confessed just now That he dropped it there for a special purpose Which would be bent to his desires . 
o fool ! 	o fool ! 
fool ! 	fool ! 
fool ! 	fool ! 
for this slave ,  If there be any cunning cruelty That can torment him much and hold him long ,  It shall be his . 	for this slave ,  If there be any cunning cruelty That can torment him a lot and stop him a long time ,  It shall be his . 
you shall close prisoner rest ,  Till that the nature of your fault be known To the Venetian state . 	you shall remain a prisoner ,  Until the nature of your crime is known To the Venetian state . 
come ,  bring away . 	come ,  bring him away . 
soft you; a word or two before you go . 	pardon me ,  a word or two before you go . 
I have done the state some service ,  and they know't . 	I have done the state some service ,  and they know it . 
no more of that . 	no more of that . 
I pray you ,  in your letters ,  When you shall these unlucky deeds relate ,  Speak of me as I am; nothing extenuate ,  Nor set down aught in malice . 	I beg you ,  in your letters ,  When you shall tell about these unlucky deeds ,  Speak of me as I am; nothing farfetched ,  And don’t write anything in malice . 
then must you speak Of one that loved not wisely but too well; Of one not easily jealous ,  but ,  being wrought ,  Perplex'd in the extreme; of one whose hand ,  Like the base Indian ,  threw a pearl away Richer than all his tribe; of one whose subdued eyes ,  Albeit unused to the melting mood ,  Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees Their medicinal gum . 	then you must speak Of one that loved not wisely ,  but too well; Of one not easily jealous ,  but ,  being aggravated ,  Confused in the extreme; of one whose hand ,  Like the low Judas ,  threw a pearl away That was richer than all his tribe; of one whose sad eyes ,  Albeit unused to a crying spell ,  Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees drop Their medicinal gum . 
set you down this; And say besides ,  that in Aleppo once ,  Where a malignant and a turban'd Turk Beat a Venetian and traduced the state ,  I took by the throat the circumcised dog And smote him ,  thus . 	write this down; And say besides ,  that in Aleppo once ,  Where a malignant and a turbaned Turk Beat a Venetian and double - crossed the state ,  I took the circumcised dog by the throat And killed him like this . 
o bloody period ! 	o bloody period ! 
all that's spoke is marr'd . 	all that's spoken is marred . 
I kiss'd thee ere I kill'd thee . 	I kissed you before I killed you . 
no way but this ,  Killing myself ,  to die upon a kiss . 	no way but this ,  Killing myself ,  to die on a kiss . 
this did I fear ,  but thought he had no weapon; For he was great of heart . 	I was afraid of this ,  but I thought he had no weapon; He was great of heart . 
o Spartan dog ,  More fell than anguish ,  hunger ,  or the sea ! 	o Spartan dog ,  More evil than anguish ,  hunger ,  or the sea ! 
look on the tragic loading of this bed; This is thy work . 	look on the tragic load on this bed; This is your work . 
the object poisons sight; Let it be hid . 	the object of poison’s sight; Let it be hidden . 
gratiano ,  keep the house ,  And seize upon the fortunes of the Moor ,  For they succeed on you . 	gratiano ,  keep the house ,  And seize on the fortunes of the Moor ,  Because they fall on you . 
myself will straight aboard ,  and to the state This heavy act with heavy heart relate . 	I myself will board the ship right away and go to the state To relate his heavy act with heavy heart . 
why ,  so . 	well . 
now have I done a good day’s work . 	now I’ve done a good day’s work . 
you peers ,  continue this united league . 	you must all keep up this united front . 
dissemble not your hatred . 	don’t simply hide your hatred . 
swear your love . 	swear your love for each other . 
and with my hand I seal my true heart’s love . 	on my honor ,  I swear I love Rivers with all my heart . 
and I as I love Hastings with my heart . 	and I love Hastings with all my heart . 
you have been factious one against the other . — Wife ,  love Lord Hastings . 	take my hand ,  Hastings . 
dorset ,  embrace him . —Hastings ,  love Lord Marquess . 	dorset ,  embrace Hastings . —Hastings ,  express your affection for the marquess of Dorset . 
this interchange of love ,  I here protest ,  Upon my part shall be inviolable . 	I swear I will never break this promise of love . 
and so swear I . 	and so do I ,  my lord . 
now ,  princely Buckingham ,  seal thou this league With thy embracements to my wife’s allies And make me happy in your unity . 	now ,  noble Buckingham ,  seal this alliance by embracing my wife’s friends ,  and make me happy in your unity . 
a pleasing cordial ,  princely Buckingham ,  Is this thy vow unto my sickly heart . 	noble Buckingham ,  your promise is like medicine to my ailing heart . 
and in good time ,  Here comes Sir Richard Ratcliffe and the duke . 	and just in time ,  here he comes with Sir Richard Ratcliffe . 
good morrow to my sovereign king and queen ,  And ,  princely peers ,  a happy time of day . 	good morning to my sovereign king and queen . 
happy indeed ,  as we have spent the day . 	happy indeed ,  the way we have spent the day . 
a blessèd labor ,  my most sovereign lord . 	what blessed work ,  my king . 
tis death to me to be at enmity; I hate it ,  and desire all good men’s love . 	I hate it and want all good men’s love . 
a holy day shall this be kept hereafter . 	today shall always be remembered as a holy day . 
I would to God all strifes were well compounded . 	If only all struggles ended this well . 
my sovereign lord ,  I do beseech your Highness To take our brother Clarence to your grace . 	please pardon our brother Clarence . 
why ,  madam ,  have I offered love for this ,  To be so flouted in this royal presence ? 	why ,  madam ,  have I offered you my love only to be flouted in front of the king ? 
who knows not that the gentle duke is dead ? 	who doesn’t know that the good duke is dead ? 
who knows not he is dead ! 	who doesn’t know he’s dead ? 
who knows he is ? 	who says he is ? 
all - seeing heaven ,  what a world is this ! 	oh my God ,  what a terrible world this is ! 
look I so pale ,  Lord Dorset ,  as the rest ? 	do I look as pale as everyone else does ,  Lord Dorset ? 
Is Clarence dead ? 	Is Clarence dead ? 
the order was reversed . 	but I reversed the death sentence . 
but he ,  poor man ,  by your first order died ,  And that a wingèd Mercury did bear . 	well ,  the poor man died by your first order ,  which was carried by a winged messenger . 
some tardy cripple bear the countermand ,  That came too lag to see him burièd . 	some tardy cripple must have taken the counter - order ,  who came after Clarence was already buried . 
god grant that some ,  less noble and less loyal ,  Nearer in bloody thoughts ,  and not in blood ,  Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did ,  And yet go current from suspicion . 	It’s clear that someone less noble ,  less loyal ,  more bloody - minded than Clarence but not a blood relation ,  deserves as bad an end as my brother ,  but he goes free . 
I prithee ,  peace . 	please be quiet . 
my soul is full of sorrow . 	my soul is full of sorrow . 
I will not rise unless your Highness hear me . 	I will not rise until your Highness hears me . 
then say at once what is it thou requests . 	then hurry up and tell me what you want . 
the forfeit ,  sovereign ,  of my servant’s life ,  Who slew today a riotous gentleman Lately attendant on the duke of Norfolk . 	that you lift the death sentence on my servant ,  who killed a rowdy and belligerent former servant of the duke of Norfolk . 
we know thy charge ,  Brakenbury ,  and will obey . 	we know you have a job to do ,  Brakenbury ,  and we’ll do what you say . 
we are the queen’s abjects and must obey . — Brother ,  farewell . 	farewell ,  brother . 
I know it pleaseth neither of us well . 	It doesn’t make either of us happy ,  I know . 
well ,  your imprisonment shall not be long . 	well ,  your imprisonment won’t last long . 
I will deliver you or else lie for you . 	I will either get you out ,  lying if I have to ,  or stay in prison in your place . 
meantime ,  have patience . 	In the meantime ,  be patient . 
I must perforce . 	I have no choice . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
go tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return . 	go walk the path that you will never return from . 
simple ,  plain Clarence ,  I do love thee so That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven ,  If heaven will take the present at our hands . 	I love you so much that I’ll send your soul to heaven very soon—if heaven will accept anything from me ,  that is . 
but who comes here ? 	but who’s coming ? 
good time of day unto my gracious lord . 	good afternoon ,  my dear lord ! 
as much unto my good Lord Chamberlain . 	the same to you ,  my lord ! 
well are you welcome to the open air . 	welcome to the open air again . 
how hath your lordship brooked imprisonment ? 	how did you tolerate prison ? 
my brother killed no man; his fault was thought ,  And yet his punishment was bitter death . 	but his punishment was bitter death . 
who sued to me for him ? 	who pleaded with me to pardon
this is the fruits of rashness . 	this is what happens when you act rashly . 
marked you not How that the guilty kindred of the queen Looked pale when they did hear of Clarence' death ? 	did you notice how the queen’s guilty relatives turned pale when they heard about Clarence’s death ? 
o ,  they did urge it still unto the king . 	oh ,  they continually urged the king to do it . 
god will revenge it . 	god will revenge it . 
come ,  lords ,  will you go To comfort Edward with our company ? 	but come ,  lords ,  will you come with me to Edward’s room to comfort him ? 
we wait upon your Grace . 	we’ll come with you ,  your Grace . 
good grandam ,  tell us ,  is our father dead ? 	tell me ,  good grandmother ,  is our father dead ? 
no ,  boy . 	no ,  boy . 
my pretty cousins ,  you mistake me both . 	my pretty children ,  both of you misunderstand me . 
then ,  you conclude ,  my grandam ,  he is dead . 	so you’re admitting Clarence ,  my father ,  is dead . 
the king mine uncle is to blame for it . 	my uncle the king is to blame for this . 
god will revenge it ,  whom I will importune With earnest prayers ,  all to that effect . 	god will take revenge . 
and so will I . 	and so will I . 
peace ,  children ,  peace . 	quiet ,  children ,  quiet . 
the king doth love you well . 	the king loves you very much . 
Incapable and shallow innocents ,  You cannot guess who caused your father’s death . 	Innocent sweethearts ,  you have no idea who’s responsible for your father’s death . 
think you my uncle did dissemble ,  grandam ? 	you think my uncle was lying ,  grandmother ? 
ay ,  boy . 	yes ,  boy . 
I cannot think it . 	I can’t believe that . 
hark ,  what noise is this ? 	what’s that noise ? 
I’ll join with black despair against my soul And to myself become an enemy . 	I plan to fall into the blackest despair . 
why grow the branches when the root is gone ? 	why are the branches still living when the root is gone ? 
why wither not the leaves that want their sap ? 	why aren’t the leaves withering now that the sap is all dried up ? 
If you will live ,  lament . 	If you do intend to live ,  then mourn . 
If die ,  be brief ,  That our swift - wingèd souls may catch the king’s ,  Or ,  like obedient subjects ,  follow him To his new kingdom of ne'er - changing night . 	If you’re going to die ,  be quick about it so you can catch the king’s departing soul or follow him ,  like obedient subjects ,  to his new kingdom of endless night . 
o ,  what cause have I ,  Thine being but a moiety of my moan ,  To overgo thy woes and drown thy cries ! 	since your woes are only a portion of mine ,  I have every reason to surpass your lamentations and drown out your cries with my own . 
all springs reduce their currents to mine eyes ,  That I ,  being governed by the watery moon ,  May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world . 	I could drown the world . 
ah ,  for my husband ,  for my dear lord Edward ! 	my poor husband ,  my dear Edward ! 
ah ,  for our father ,  for our dear lord Clarence ! 	our poor father ,  Clarence ! 
alas for both ,  both mine ,  Edward and Clarence ! 	my sons Edward and Clarence ! 
what stay had I but Edward ? 	what support did I have other than Edward ? 
and he’s gone . 	and now he’s gone . 
what stay had we but Clarence ? 	what support did we have besides our father ? 
and he’s gone . 	and now he’s gone . 
and they are gone . 	and now they’re both gone . 
was never widow had so dear a loss . 	there has never been a widow who suffered such loss as me . 
were never orphans had so dear a loss . 	there have never been orphans who’ve suffered what we have . 
was never mother had so dear a loss . 	there was never a mother who suffered so much loss . 
alas ,  I am the mother of these griefs . 	alas ,  I am the mother of all these others' griefs . 
she for an Edward weeps ,  and so do I; I for a Clarence weep; so doth not she . 	she weeps for Edward and so do I ,  while she does not weep for Clarence ,  though I do . 
these babes for Clarence weep and so do I; I for an Edward weep; so do not they . 	these young children cry for Clarence and so do I ,  though they don’t cry for Edward ,  as I do . 
madam ,  bethink you ,  like a careful mother ,  Of the young prince your son . 	be a careful mother ,  madam ,  and think about your son ,  the young prince . 
In him your comfort lives . 	your peace of mind depends on him . 
sister ,  have comfort . 	sister ,  calm down . 
all of us have cause To wail the dimming of our shining star ,  But none can help our harms by wailing them . — Madam ,  my mother ,  I do cry you mercy; I did not see your Grace . 	all of us have reason to mourn the dimming of our shining star the king . 
humbly on my knee I crave your blessing . 	on my knee ,  I humbly ask your blessing . 
god bless thee ,  and put meekness in thy breast ,  Love ,  charity ,  obedience ,  and true duty . 	god bless you and make you obedient ,  loving ,  and kind . 
you cloudy princes and heart - sorrowing peers That bear this heavy mutual load of moan ,  Now cheer each other in each other’s love . 	you mournful princes and grieving gentlemen who have been sharing this burden of grief ,  now it’s time to cheer each other up with love . 
though we have spent our harvest of this king ,  We are to reap the harvest of his son . 	though we have lost a generous king ,  we are about to enjoy the benefits of a new king . 
the broken rancor of your high - swoll'n hates ,  But lately splintered ,  knit ,  and joined together ,  Must gently be preserved ,  cherished ,  and kept . 	we must preserve our goodwill toward each other and not break into factions again . 
meseemeth good that with some little train Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fet Hither to London ,  to be crowned our king . 	I think a few members of the court should fetch the young prince from Wales and bring him to London to be crowned our king . 
why  “ with some little train ,  ”  my Lord of Buckingham ? 	why only a few courtiers ,  my lord of Buckingham ? 
I hope the king made peace with all of us; And the compact is firm and true in me . 	the king made peace among all of us . 
and so in me ,  and so ,  I think ,  in all . 	and so do I .  I think we all do . 
therefore I say with noble Buckingham That it is meet so few should fetch the prince . 	so ,  I agree with noble Buckingham—only a few should go to meet the prince . 
and so say I . 	I think so too . 
my lord ,  whoever journeys to the prince ,  For God’s sake let not us two at home . 	for God’s sake ,  my lord ,  let’s be sure to be part of the group that meets the prince . 
for by the way I’ll sort occasion ,  As index to the story we late talked of ,  To part the queen’s proud kindred from the prince . 	along the way ,  I’ll find an opportunity to separate him from the queen’s proud relatives ,  as step one in the plan we’ve discussed . 
my other self ,  my council’s consistory ,  My oracle ,  my prophet ,  my dear cousin ,  I ,  as a child ,  will go by thy direction Toward Ludlow then ,  for we’ll not stay behind . 	you are my other self ,  my oracle ,  my prophet ,  my dear brother ! 
good morrow ,  neighbor ,  whither away so fast ? 	good morrow ,  neighbor ,  whither away so fast ? 
I promise you I scarcely know myself . 	I’m telling you ,  I hardly know myself . 
hear you the news abroad ? 	did you hear the news that’s going around ? 
yes ,  that the king is dead . 	yes ,  that the king is dead . 
neighbors ,  God speed . 	neighbors ,  hello . 
give you good morrow ,  sir . 	good day to you ,  sir . 
doth this news hold of good King Edward’s death ? 	Is it true that good King Edward has died ? 
ay ,  sir ,  it is too true ,  God help the while . 	yes ,  sir ,  it’s all too true ,  God help us . 
then ,  masters ,  look to see a troublous world . 	then ,  gentlemen ,  we can count on trouble . 
no ,  no ,  by God’s good grace ,  his son shall reign . 	no ,  no ,  with God’s help ,  his son will be king . 
woe to the land that’s governed by a child . 	It’s bad news when a country is ruled by a child . 
In him there is a hope of government ,  Which ,  in his nonage ,  council under him ,  And ,  in his full and ripened years ,  himself ,  No doubt shall then ,  and till then ,  govern well . 	his counselors will govern as long as he’s a minor ,  and then he’ll take over . 
with patience ,  noble lord ,  as prisoners must . 	with patience ,  noble lord ,  as prisoners must . 
more pity that the eagle should be mewed While kites and buzzards prey at liberty . 	It’s a shame that we eagles are caged up while the vultures are free to do whatever they please . 
what news abroad ? 	what’s the news abroad ? 
tis very grievous to be thought upon . 	very sad . 
where is he ,  in his bed ? 	where is he ,  in his bed ? 
he is . 	he is . 
go you before ,  and I will follow you . 	you go ahead ,  and I will follow you . 
so stood the state when Henry the Sixth Was crowned in Paris but at nine months old . 	that’s how it was with Henry the Sixth ,  who was crowned in Paris when he was only nine months old . 
stood the state so ? 	really ? 
better it were they all came by his father ,  Or by the father there were none at all ,  For emulation who shall now be nearest Will touch us all too near if God prevent not . 	It would be better if they were all on his father’s side ,  or that there were none at all on his father’s side . 
o ,  full of danger is the duke of Gloucester ,  And the queen’s sons and brothers haught and proud ,  And were they to be ruled ,  and not to rule ,  This sickly land might solace as before . 	richard ,  the duke of Gloucester ,  is very dangerous ,  and the queen’s sons and brothers are haughty and proud—it would be better for this ailing country if they were subjects ,  not rulers . 
come ,  come ,  we fear the worst . 	come ,  come ,  we’re worrying about the worst - case scenario . 
all will be well . 	I’m sure everything will be fine . 
untimely storms make men expect a dearth . 	when storms arrive early ,  you can expect the harvest will be damaged . 
all may be well; but if God sort it so ,  'Tis more than we deserve or I expect . 	so ,  if all turns out fine ,  as you say ,  it’s more than we deserve or I expect . 
before the days of change ,  still is it so . 	It’s always like this in times of change . 
but leave it all to God . 	but leave it all to God . 
whither away ? 	where are you all off to ? 
marry ,  we were sent for to the justices . 	the court has sent for us . 
tomorrow or next day they will be here . 	they’ll be here tomorrow or the next day . 
I long with all my heart to see the prince . 	I’m dying to see the prince . 
I hope he is much grown since last I saw him . 	I hope he’s grown a lot since I last saw him . 
ay ,  mother ,  but I would not have it so . 	yes ,  mother ,  but I wish I hadn’t . 
why ,  my young cousin ? 	why ,  dear child ? 
It is good to grow . 	It’s good to grow . 
grandam ,  one night as we did sit at supper ,  My uncle Rivers talked how I did grow More than my brother:  “ Ay ,  ”  quoth my uncle Gloucester ,   “ Small herbs have grace; great weeds do grow apace .  ”  And since ,  methinks I would not grow so fast Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste . 	yes ,  ”  said my uncle Gloucester ,   “ Small plants are graceful ,  while ugly weeds grow fast .  ”  And since then ,  I’ve wished I wouldn’t grow so fast ,  because sweet flowers are slow while the weeds grow in a hurry . 
good faith ,  good faith ,  the saying did not hold In him that did object the same to thee ! 	well ,  it certainly wasn’t true for Richard ! 
he was the wretched’st thing when he was young ,  So long a - growing and so leisurely ,  That if this rule were true ,  he should be gracious . 	as a child ,  he took such a long time to grow up that ,  according to his rule ,  he should have grown up into a gracious adult . 
and so no doubt he is ,  my gracious madam . 	and no doubt he is ,  gracious madam . 
I hope he is ,  but yet let mothers doubt . 	I hope he is ,  but mothers get to have their doubts . 
now ,  by my troth ,  if I had been remembered ,  I could have given my uncle’s grace a flout To touch his growth nearer than he touched mine . 	hey ,  if I’d remembered something about him ,  I could have had a good comeback for my uncle ,  touching on his growth worse than he touched on mine . 
how ,  my pretty York ? 	what would you have said ,  my young York ? 
I prithee let me hear it . 	do tell . 
marry ,  they say my uncle grew so fast That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old . 	Indeed ,  they say my uncle grew so fast that he could gnaw on a crust of bread when he was two hours old . 
twas full two years ere I could get a tooth . 	It took me two years before I had a single tooth . 
grandam ,  this would have been a biting jest . 	grandmother ,  this would have been a biting joke . 
I prithee ,  pretty York ,  who told thee this ? 	pretty York ,  who told you about his teeth ? 
grandam ,  his nurse . 	his nurse ,  grandmother . 
his nurse ? 	his nurse ? 
why ,  she was dead ere thou wast born . 	why ,  she was dead before you were even born . 
If ’twere not she ,  I cannot tell who told me . 	well ,  if it wasn’t her ,  I don’t know . 
a parlous boy ! 	a mischievous child . 
go to ,  you are too shrewd . 	come ,  come ,  you are too clever for your own good . 
good madam ,  be not angry with the child . 	good lady ,  don’t be angry with the child . 
pitchers have ears . 	little pitchers have big ears . 
here comes a messenger . 	here comes a messenger . 
what news ? 	what’s the news ? 
such news ,  my lord ,  as grieves me to report . 	my lord ,  it’s news I wish I didn’t have to report . 
how doth the prince ? 	how’s the prince ? 
well ,  madam ,  and in health . 	he’s fine and healthy ,  madam . 
what is thy news then ? 	what is your news ? 
the mighty dukes ,  Gloucester and Buckingham . 	the powerful dukes Gloucester and Buckingham . 
for what offence ? 	what did they do wrong ? 
the sum of all I can ,  I have disclosed . 	I’ve told you everything I know . 
why ,  or for what ,  the nobles were committed Is all unknown to me ,  my gracious lord . 	why the nobles were imprisoned ,  and on what charges ,  I don’t know ,  my gracious lord . 
ay me ! 	oh no ! 
I see the ruin of my house . 	I see the downfall of my family . 
welcome ,  destruction ,  blood ,  and massacre . 	welcome ,  destruction ,  blood ,  and massacre ! 
my husband lost his life to get the crown ,  And often up and down my sons were tossed For me to joy ,  and weep ,  their gain and loss . 	my husband lost his life to get the crown ,  and my sons' fortunes have been tossed up and down ,  leaving me to rejoice over their victories and weep over their losses . 
o ,  preposterous And frantic outrage ,  end thy damnèd spleen ,  Or let me die ,  to look on death no more . 	let it end ,  or let me die so I won’t have to watch any more of it . 
the weary way hath made you melancholy . 	the tiring journey seems to have made you gloomy . 
no ,  uncle ,  but our crosses on the way Have made it tedious ,  wearisome ,  and heavy . 	It wasn’t the journey itself ,  uncle ,  but the troubles we encountered that made it wearisome and dull . 
I want more uncles here to welcome me . 	I want more uncles here to welcome me . 
those uncles which you want were dangerous . 	those uncles that you wish were here were dangerous . 
your Grace attended to their sugared words But looked not on the poison of their hearts . 	your Grace heard their saccharine words ,  but didn’t take note of their poisonous intentions . 
god keep you from them ,  and from such false friends . 	god protect you from them and from other false friends ! 
god keep me from false friends ,  but they were none . 	god should keep me from false friends ,  but they weren’t false . 
my lord ,  the mayor of London comes to greet you . 	my lord ,  the mayor of London is here to greet you . 
god bless your Grace with health and happy days . 	god bless your Grace with health and happy days . 
fie ,  what a slug is Hastings that he comes not To tell us whether they will come or no ! 	and what a slug Hastings is that he hasn’t even arrived to tell us whether they’re coming ! 
and in good time here comes the sweating lord . 	and ,  just in time ,  here comes the sweaty lord . 
welcome ,  my lord . 	welcome ,  my lord . 
what ,  will our mother come ? 	what ,  isn’t my mother coming ? 
on what occasion God He knows ,  not I ,  The queen your mother and your brother York Have taken sanctuary . 	god knows why ,  but your mother and your brother have taken sanctuary in Westminster Abbey . 
the tender prince Would fain have come with me to meet your Grace ,  But by his mother was perforce withheld . 	your sweet brother wanted to come meet you ,  but his mother wouldn’t let him . 
not for all this land Would I be guilty of so deep a sin . 	I wouldn’t commit so serious a crime for anything . 
weigh it but with the grossness of this age ,  You break not sanctuary in seizing him . 	In these less dainty times ,  you’re not breaking the laws of sanctuary to seize him . 
this prince hath neither claimed it nor deserved it And therefore ,  in mine opinion ,  cannot have it . 	the prince has done neither; therefore ,  in my opinion ,  he isn’t really protected by sanctuary . 
oft have I heard of sanctuary men ,  But sanctuary children ,  ne'er till now . 	often I have heard of  “ sanctuary men ,  ”  but until now I’ve never heard of  “ sanctuary children .  ”  My lord ,  you’ve won me over this time . 
my lord ,  you shall o'errule my mind for once . — Come on ,  Lord Hastings ,  will you go with me ? 	lord Hastings ,  will you go with me ? 
I go ,  my lord . 	I’m coming ,  my lord . 
good lords ,  make all the speedy haste you may . 	go as fast as you can . 
say ,  uncle Gloucester ,  if our brother come ,  Where shall we sojourn till our coronation ? 	say ,  uncle Richard ,  if my brother comes ,  where will I stay till my coronation ? 
where it seems best unto your royal self . 	whatever seems best to you . 
I do not like the Tower ,  of any place . — Did Julius Caesar build that place ,  my lord ? 	of all places ,  I don’t like the
he did ,  my gracious lord ,  begin that place ,  Which ,  since ,  succeeding ages have re - edified . 	he started it ,  my noble lord ,  and succeeding generations rebuilt it . 
Is it upon record ,  or else reported Successively from age to age ,  he built it ? 	Is it on record that he built it ,  or is it just word of mouth ? 
upon record ,  my gracious lord . 	on record ,  my gracious lord . 
but say ,  my lord ,  it were not registered ,  Methinks the truth should live from age to age ,  As ’twere retailed to all posterity ,  Even to the general all - ending day . 	well ,  I think that even if it weren’t on record ,  the truth would be remembered from one generation to the next—all the way to Doomsday . 
what say you ,  uncle ? 	what did you say ,  uncle ? 
death makes no conquest of this conqueror ,  For now he lives in fame ,  though not in life . 	death didn’t conquer
he cannot live ,  I hope ,  and must not die Till George be packed with post - horse up to heaven . 	the king won’t live ,  I hope . 
for then I’ll marry Warwick’s youngest daughter . 	I’ll marry the earl of Warwick’s youngest daughter ,  Lady Anne . 
what though I killed her husband and her father ? 	so what if I killed her husband and her father ? 
the readiest way to make the wench amends Is to become her husband and her father; The which will I ,  not all so much for love As for another secret close intent By marrying her which I must reach unto . 	so that’s what I’ll do ,  not because I love her but because I’ll get something out of it . 
but yet I run before my horse to market . 	but I’m running ahead of myself . 
clarence still breathes; Edward still lives and reigns . 	clarence is still alive; Edward is not only alive ,  he’s king . 
when they are gone ,  then must I count my gains . 	only when they’re dead can I start to count my gains . 
what ,  my gracious lord ? 	what ,  my dear lord ? 
richard of York ,  how fares our loving brother ? 	richard of York ,  how are you doing ,  my loving brother ? 
well ,  my dread lord—so must I call you now . 	very well ,  my supreme lord—that’s what I have to call you now . 
how fares our cousin ,  noble Lord of York ? 	how’s my nephew doing ,  noble lord of York ? 
I thank you ,  gentle uncle . 	thank you for asking ,  uncle . 
o ,  my lord ,  You said that idle weeds are fast in growth . 	oh ,  my lord ,  you once said that lazy weeds grow fast . 
the prince my brother hath outgrown me far . 	the prince has far outgrown me . 
he hath ,  my lord . 	he has ,  my lord . 
and therefore is he idle ? 	does that mean he’s lazy ? 
o ,  my fair cousin ,  I must not say so . 	oh ,  my handsome nephew ,  I must not say that . 
then is he more beholding to you than I . 	In that case ,  he’s more obliged to you than I am . 
he may command me as my sovereign ,  But you have power in me as in a kinsman . 	he may command me as my king ,  but you still have power over me as a relative . 
I pray you ,  uncle ,  give me this dagger . 	uncle ,  please give me your dagger . 
my dagger ,  little cousin ? 	my dagger ,  little nephew ? 
with all my heart . 	with all my heart . 
a beggar ,  brother ? 	are you begging ,  brother ? 
of my kind uncle ,  that I know will give ,  And being but a toy ,  which is no grief to give . 	from my kind uncle ,  who I know will give it to me ,  especially as it’s not worth much . 
a greater gift than that I’ll give my cousin . 	I’ll give you a greater gift than that ,  nephew . 
a greater gift ? 	a greater gift ? 
o ,  that’s the sword to it . 	that must mean a sword . 
ay ,  gentle cousin ,  were it light enough . 	yes ,  gentle cousin ,  if it were light enough for you . 
o ,  then I see you will part but with light gifts . 	oh ,  I see ,  you will only part with lightweight presents . 
In weightier things you’ll say a beggar nay . 	for more important things ,  you’ll say no . 
It is too heavy for your Grace to wear . 	a sword’s too heavy for you to wear . 
I weigh it lightly ,  were it heavier . 	I wouldn’t think much of it even if it were heavier . 
how ? 	what’s that ? 
uncle ,  your Grace knows how to bear with him . 	but ,  uncle ,  you know how to bear with him . 
you mean ,  to bear me ,  not to bear with me . — Uncle ,  my brother mocks both you and me . 	you mean ,  to bear me ,  not to bear        My protector ,  Richard ,  insists on it . 
I shall not sleep in quiet at the Tower . 	I can’t sleep quietly in the Tower . 
why ,  what should you fear ? 	why ,  what are you afraid of ? 
marry ,  my uncle Clarence' angry ghost . 	my uncle Clarence’s angry ghost . 
my grandam told me he was murdered there . 	my grandmother told me he was murdered there . 
I fear no uncles dead . 	I’m not afraid of dead uncles . 
nor none that live ,  I hope . 	nor living ones ,  I hope . 
an if they live ,  I hope I need not fear . 	well ,  I hope not . 
no doubt ,  no doubt . 	no doubt ,  no doubt . 
o ,  ’tis a parlous boy ,  Bold ,  quick ,  ingenious ,  forward ,  capable . 	oh ,  he’s a dangerously clever boy—bold ,  quick - witted ,  capable . 
he is all the mother’s ,  from the top to toe . 	he’s his mother’s child from head to toe . 
well ,  let them rest . —Come hither ,  Catesby . 	well ,  enough about them . —Come here ,  Catesby . 
he ,  for his father’s sake ,  so loves the prince That he will not be won to aught against him . 	hastings loved the prince’s father so much that we won’t be able to persuade him to do anything against the prince . 
what think’st thou then of Stanley ? 	what about Stanley ? 
will not he ? 	won’t he join us ? 
he will do all in all as Hastings doth . 	he’ll do whatever Hastings does . 
well then ,  no more but this: go ,  gentle Catesby ,  And ,  as it were far off ,  sound thou Lord Hastings How he doth stand affected to our purpose And summon him tomorrow to the Tower To sit about the coronation . 	okay ,  just do this ,  noble Catesby: sound out Lord Hastings ,  but make it seem as if you’re just mulling over the idea ,  that it hasn’t been firmed up yet . 
If thou dost find him tractable to us ,  Encourage him and show him all our reasons . 	If he seems game to our plan ,  encourage him to join us and explain all our reasons . 
If he be leaden ,  icy ,  cold ,  unwilling ,  Be thou so too ,  and so break off the talk ,  And give us notice of his inclination; For we tomorrow hold divided councils ,  Wherein thyself shalt highly be employed . 	but if he’s resistant and chilly ,  then be like that too and break off the conversation . 
commend me to Lord William . 	give my regards to Hastings ,  Catesby . 
my good lords both ,  with all the heed I can . 	my good lords ,  I plan to . 
shall we hear from you ,  Catesby ,  ere we sleep ? 	will we hear from you before bedtime ,  Catesby ? 
you shall ,  my lord . 	you will ,  my lord . 
at Crosby Place ,  there shall you find us both . 	you’ll find us both at Crosby Place . 
now ,  my lord ,  what shall we do ,  if we perceive Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots ? 	now ,  my lord ,  what are we going to do if we find that Lord Hastings won’t go along with our plans ? 
chop off his head . 	chop off his head . 
something we will determine . 	whatever we decide to do . 
and look when I am king ,  claim thou of me The earldom of Hereford ,  and all the moveables Whereof the king my brother was possessed . 	and when I’m king ,  remember to ask me for the earldom of Hereford and all the possessions that go with it ,  which my brother the king used to own . 
I’ll claim that promise at your Grace’s hands . 	I look forward to that present . 
and look to have it yielded with all kindness . 	you’ll find I’ll give it to you very willingly . 
come ,  let us sup betimes ,  that afterwards We may digest our complots in some form . 	come ,  let’s have an early dinner so that we have time to work out our plans . 
one from the Lord Stanley . 	a messenger from Lord Stanley . 
upon the stroke of four . 	four o'clock in the morning . 
cannot my Lord Stanley sleep these tedious nights ? 	can’t Lord Stanley sleep ? 
so it appears by that I have to say . 	I guess not—for good reason ,  as you’ll soon hear . 
first ,  he commends him to your noble self . 	first ,  he sends his regards . 
what then ? 	and then ? 
then certifies your Lordship that this night He dreamt the boar had razèd his helm Besides ,  he says there are two councils kept ,  And that may be determined at the one Which may make you and him to rue at th' other . 	besides that ,  he says that two meetings are going to be held tomorrow ,  and something may be decided at one of them that may make you and him ,  who are at the other ,  sorry . 
his Honor and myself are at the one ,  And at the other is my good friend Catesby ,  Where nothing can proceed that toucheth us Whereof I shall not have intelligence . 	while he and I are at one ,  my loyal servant Catesby will be at the other ,  so nothing will happen that we won’t find out about . 
tell him his fears are shallow ,  without instance . 	tell your master there is no sound basis for his worries . 
and for his dreams ,  I wonder he’s so simple To trust the mock'ry of unquiet slumbers . 	and as for his dreams ,  I’m surprised he’s so foolish as to trust the fantasies of a restless night . 
to fly the boar before the boar pursues Were to incense the boar to follow us And make pursuit where he did mean no chase . 	If we flee from the boar before the boar even pursues us ,  we’ll only make the boar angry and suspicious ,  causing him to chase us when he never intended to . 
many good morrows to my noble lord . 	good morning ,  my noble lord . 
good morrow ,  Catesby . 	good day ,  Catesby . 
you are early stirring . 	you’re up early . 
what news ,  what news in this our tott'ring state ? 	what news can you tell me in this fast - moving ,  unsteady state of ours ? 
It is a reeling world indeed ,  my lord ,  And I believe will never stand upright Till Richard wear the garland of the realm . 	I believe it won’t stop moving and stand upright till Richard wears the wreath of the realm . 
how  “ wear the garland ”  ? 	what do you mean ,   “ wears the wreath ”  ? 
dost thou mean the crown ? 	are you talking about the crown ? 
ay ,  my good lord . 	yes ,  my good lord . 
I’ll have this crown of mine cut from my shoulders Before I’ll see the crown so foul misplaced . 	I’ll have my head cut from my shoulders before I’ll see the crown so misplaced . 
but canst thou guess that he doth aim at it ? 	but do you think that’s what he’s aiming for ? 
ay ,  on my life ,  and hopes to find you forward Upon his party for the gain thereof; And thereupon he sends you this good news ,  That this same very day your enemies ,  The kindred of the queen ,  must die at Pomfret . 	for that reason he sends you this good news—that this very day your enemies ,  the queen’s relatives ,  will die at Pomfret . 
Indeed ,  I am no mourner for that news ,  Because they have been still my adversaries . 	well ,  I’m not sorry to hear that ,  because they have always been my enemies . 
god keep your Lordship in that gracious mind . 	well ,  let’s hope you stay in that noble frame of mind . 
well ,  Catesby ,  ere a fortnight make me older I’ll send some packing that yet think not on ’t . 	but as for now—before two weeks have gone by ,  I’m going to send some people packing . 
tis a vile thing to die ,  my gracious lord ,  When men are unprepared and look not for it . 	It’s a horrible thing to die when you’re not prepared for it ,  my gracious lord . 
o monstrous ,  monstrous ! 	yes ,  monstrous ,  monstrous ! 
and so falls it out With Rivers ,  Vaughan ,  Grey; and so ’twill do With some men else that think themselves as safe As thou and I ,  who ,  as thou know’st ,  are dear To princely Richard and to Buckingham . 	that’s how it will be for some other men ,  too ,  who think they’re as safe as you and I ,  who are well - loved by noble Richard and Buckingham . 
the princes both make high account of you—  I know they do ,  and I have well deserved it . 	I know they do ,  and I certainly deserve it . 
fear you the boar ,  and go so unprovided ? 	you’re afraid of the boar but you go around without your spear ? 
my lord ,  good morrow . 	my lord ,  good morning . 
good morrow ,  Catesby . — You may jest on ,  but ,  by the Holy Rood ,  I do not like these several councils ,  I . 	good morning ,  Catesby . 
my lord ,  I hold my life as dear as you do yours ,  And never in my days ,  I do protest ,  Was it so precious to me as ’tis now . 	my lord ,  my life is as important to me as yours is to you ,  and it was never as precious to me as it is now . 
think you but that I know our state secure ,  I would be so triumphant as I am ? 	do you think I would be feeling as triumphant as I am if I didn’t know that our situation was secure ? 
pray God ,  I say ,  I prove a needless coward ! 	I hope to God I’m proven wrong ! 
what ,  shall we toward the Tower ? 	well ,  should we head to the Tower ? 
the day is spent . 	the day is well on its way . 
set down ,  set down your honorable load ,  If honor may be shrouded in a hearse ,  Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament Th' untimely fall of virtuous Lancaster . 	set down your honorable load ,  men ,  if there is ever any honor in being dead . 
wot you what ,  my lord ? 	you know what ,  my lord ? 
today the lords you talked of are beheaded . 	those men you just mentioned will be beheaded today . 
they ,  for their truth ,  might better wear their heads Than some that have accused them wear their hats . 	they deserved to keep their heads more than some people who have managed to keep their positions . 
but come ,  my lord ,  let’s away . 	but come ,  my lord ,  let’s go . 
go on before . 	go on ahead . 
I’ll talk with this good fellow . 	I’ll talk with this good man . 
how now ,  sirrah ! 	what’s up ,  man ? 
how goes the world with thee ? 	how’s it going ? 
the better that your Lordship please to ask . 	better ,  since your lordship was nice enough to ask . 
I tell thee ,  man ,  ’tis better with me now Than when thou met’st me last where now we meet . 	I tell you ,  man ,  it’s better for me ,  too ,  than the last time we met here . 
but now ,  I tell thee—keep it to thyself— This day those enemies are put to death ,  And I in better state than e'er I was . 	but now ,  I tell you—keep it to yourself ,  though—those enemies of mine are being put to death today ,  and I’m better than I’ve ever been . 
god hold it ,  to your Honor’s good content ! 	well ,  let’s hope your good fortune continues ! 
there ,  drink that for me . 	here ,  drink to me . 
I thank your Honor . 	god be good to you ! 
well met ,  my lord . 	a nice coincidence ,  my lord . 
I am glad to see your Honor . 	I’m glad to see you . 
I thank thee ,  good Sir John ,  with all my heart . 	I thank you ,  Sir John ,  with all my heart . 
I am in your debt for your last exercise . 	I am indebted to you for your last sermon . 
come the next sabbath ,  and I will content you . 	by next week ,  I’ll be able to pay you . 
your friends at Pomfret ,  they do need the priest; Your Honor hath no shriving work in hand . 	your friends at Pomfret ,  they’re the ones who need a priest . 
good faith ,  and when I met this holy man ,  The men you talk of came into my mind . 	when I ran into this holy man ,  those men you mentioned did come to mind ,  in fact . 
what ,  go you toward the Tower ? 	are you headed to the Tower ? 
I shall return before your Lordship thence . 	I’ll be off before you are . 
nay ,  like enough ,  for I stay dinner there . 	yes ,  probably ,  because I’m staying for lunch . 
I’ll wait upon your Lordship . 	I’ll follow you ,  my lord . 
dispatch . 	hurry up . 
the limit of your lives is out . 	your lives are over . 
o Pomfret ,  Pomfret ! 	oh ,  Pomfret ,  Pomfret ! 
o thou bloody prison ,  Fatal and ominous to noble peers ! 	oh ,  you bloody prison ,  fatal and threatening to noble lords ! 
now Margaret’s curse is fall'n upon our heads ,  When she exclaimed on Hastings ,  you ,  and I ,  For standing by when Richard stabbed her son . 	now Margaret’s curse has fallen on our heads ,  for standing by and doing nothing when Richard stabbed her son . 
then cursed she Hastings . 	she cursed Hastings then . 
o ,  remember ,  God ,  To hear her prayer for them ,  as now for us ! 	oh God ,  remember to hear her prayer for them ,  just as for us ! 
and for my sister and her princely sons ,  Be satisfied ,  dear God ,  with our true blood ,  Which ,  as thou know’st ,  unjustly must be spilt . 	but don’t kill my sister and her royal sons ,  be satisfied ,  dear God ,  with our blood ,  which is being spilled unjustly ,  as you know . 
make haste . 	hurry up . 
the hour of death is expiate . 	the hour of death is approaching . 
come ,  Grey . 	come ,  Grey . 
come ,  Vaughan . 	come ,  Vaughan . 
let us all embrace . 	let’s embrace
In God’s name ,  speak . 	In God’s name ,  speak . 
when is the royal day ? 	when should the royal day be ? 
Is all things ready for the royal time ? 	Is everything ready for that event ? 
It is ,  and wants but nomination . 	It is . 
tomorrow ,  then ,  I judge a happy day . 	tomorrow’s a good day . 
who knows the Lord Protector’s mind herein ? 	who knows what the Lord Protector thinks ? 
who is most inward with the noble duke ? 	who’s closest to him ? 
your Grace ,  we think ,  should soonest know his mind . 	you ,  I think ,  would best know what he’s thinking . 
we know each other’s faces; for our hearts ,  He knows no more of mine than I of yours ,  Or I of his ,  my lord ,  than you of mine . — Lord Hastings ,  you and he are near in love . 	we know each other’s faces ,  but as for our thoughts ,  he doesn’t know any more about my thinking than I do about yours or his—or you do about mine . 
I thank his Grace . 	lord Hastings ,  you and he are close . 
I know he loves me well . 	thank you . 
but for his purpose in the coronation ,  I have not sounded him ,  nor he delivered His gracious pleasure any way therein . 	I know he holds me dear ,  but I haven’t asked him about the coronation ,  and he hasn’t told me . 
but you ,  my honorable lords ,  may name the time ,  And in the duke’s behalf I’ll give my voice ,  Which I presume he’ll take in gentle part . 	but you ,  my noble lords ,  may name a time ,  and I’ll second it on the duke’s behalf ,  which I don’t think he’ll mind . 
In happy time here comes the duke himself . 	right on cue ,  here’s the duke himself . 
my noble lords and cousins all ,  good morrow . 	my noble lords and relatives ,  good morning . 
had you not come upon your cue ,  my lord ,  William Lord Hastings had pronounced your part— I mean your voice for crowning of the king . 	If you hadn’t shown up on cue ,  my lord ,  Lord Hastings was going to take your part—I mean ,  he was going to speak for you—in the crowning of the king . 
than my Lord Hastings no man might be bolder . 	no one may be bolder than my Lord Hastings . 
cousin of Buckingham ,  a word with you . 	buckingham ,  I need to have a word with you . 
I’ll go with you . 	I’ll come soon . 
we have not yet set down this day of triumph . 	we have not yet set the coronation day . 
where is my lord the duke of Gloucester ? 	where is my lord ,  the duke of Gloucester ? 
I have sent for these strawberries . 	I have sent for the strawberries . 
his grace looks cheerfully and smooth this morning . 	richard is looking cheerful today . 
there’s some conceit or other likes him well When that he bids good morrow with such spirit . 	you always know he’s got some plan that pleases him when he says good morning with such gusto . 
I think there’s never a man in Christendom Can lesser hide his love or hate than he ,  For by his face straight shall you know his heart . 	I don’t think there’s a man under the sun who’s worse at hiding his love or hate than Richard . 
I pray God he be not ,  I say . 	I pray to God he isn’t . 
then be your eyes the witness of their evil . 	then see the evidence of their evil with your own eyes . 
If they have done this deed ,  my noble lord— If ? 	If they have done this thing ,  my noble lord— If ? 
thou protector of this damnèd strumpet ,  Talk’st thou to me of  “ ifs ”  ? 	you lover of that damned whore ,  you’re talking to me of  “ ifs ”  ? 
thou art a traitor— Off with his head . 	you’re a traitor . —Off with his head . 
woe ,  woe for England ! 	I pity England ,  but not myself . 
stanley did dream the boar did raze his helm ,  And I did scorn it and disdain to fly . 	stanley dreamed the boar beheaded him ,  and I laughed and refused to flee with him . 
three times today my foot - cloth horse did stumble ,  And started when he looked upon the Tower ,  As loath to bear me to the slaughterhouse . 	three times today my horse stumbled and started when he looked in the direction of the Tower ,  as if he hated to carry me to this slaughterhouse . 
o ,  now I need the priest that spake to me ! 	oh ,  now I really need that priest who spoke to me today ! 
I now repent I told the pursuivant ,  As too triumphing ,  how mine enemies Today at Pomfret bloodily were butchered ,  And I myself secure in grace and favor . 	and I regret having bragged to the messenger about how my enemies were being butchered at Pomfret while I ,  as I said ,  was in good standing with Richard . 
o Margaret ,  Margaret ,  now thy heavy curse Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head . 	oh Margaret ,  Margaret ,  your heavy curse has now landed on poor Hastings’s miserable head ! 
make a short shrift . 	make your confession short . 
he longs to see your head . 	he’s eager to see your head . 
o momentary grace of mortal men ,  Which we more hunt for than the grace of God ! 	we spend more time seeking out the fleeting glories of this temporary world than looking to the permanent grace of God ! 
who builds his hopes in air of your good looks Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast ,  Ready with every nod to tumble down Into the fatal bowels of the deep . 	anyone who builds his hopes on air lives like a drunken sailor hanging on a mast ,  ready with every dizzy nod of his head to tumble to the bottom of the sea . 
come ,  come ,  dispatch . 	come ,  come ,  hurry up . 
tis bootless to exclaim . 	It’s pointless to talk now . 
o bloody Richard ! 	oh bloody Richard ! 
miserable England ,  I prophesy the fearfull’st time to thee That ever wretched age hath looked upon . — Come ,  lead me to the block . 	miserable England ,  I foresee for you the most frightening time you have ever experienced . —Come ,  lead me to the block . 
bear him my head . 	bring him my head . 
they smile at me that shortly shall be dead . 	those who smile at it will soon be dead themselves . 
ghastly looks Are at my service ,  like enforcèd smiles ,  And both are ready in their offices ,  At any time to grace my stratagems . 	frightening looks are also at my service ,  as are fake smiles . 
but what ,  is Catesby gone ? 	but has Catesby gone ? 
catesby ,  o'erlook the walls . 	a drum ! 
If ever he have wife ,  let her be made More miserable by the death of him Than I am made by my poor lord and thee . — Come now towards Chertsey with your holy load ,  Taken from Paul’s to be interrèd there . 	and if he ever has a wife ,  let her be more miserable when he dies than I am now . 
what black magician conjures up this fiend To stop devoted charitable deeds ? 	what wicked magician has conjured up this devil to interrupt this sacred burial rite ? 
lord Mayor ,  the reason we have sent— Look back ! 	lord Mayor ,  the reason we have sent— Look behind you ! 
defend thee ! 	defend yourself ! 
here are enemies . 	there are enemies here . 
god and our innocence defend and guard us ! 	god defend and guard us innocents against them ! 
be patient . 	stay calm . 
they are friends ,  Ratcliffe and Lovell . 	they’re friends—Ratcliffe and Lovell . 
here is the head of that ignoble traitor ,  The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings . 	here’s the head of that notorious traitor ,  the dangerous and unsuspected Hastings . 
so dear I loved the man that I must weep . 	I loved this man so much it makes me weep . 
so smooth he daubed his vice with show of virtue That ,  his apparent open guilt omitted— I mean his conversation with Shore’s wife— He lived from all attainder of suspects . 	he was so slick in covering over his plans that if it hadn’t been for his love affair with Shore’s wife ,  I would never have suspected him . 
had he done so ? 	he would have ? 
what ,  think you we are Turks or infidels ? 	what ,  do you think we’re Turks or savages ,  instead of Christians ? 
I never looked for better at his hands After he once fell in with Mistress Shore . 	I didn’t expect any better from him once he got involved with Mistress Shore . 
but ,  my good lord ,  your Graces' words shall serve As well as I had seen and heard him speak; And do not doubt ,  right noble princes both ,  But I’ll acquaint our duteous citizens With all your just proceedings in this case . 	but ,  my good lord ,  the words of you and Lord Buckingham are as trustworthy to me as if I had seen and heard him speak myself . 
and to that end we wished your Lordship here T' avoid the censures of the carping world . 	that is exactly why we wanted you here ,  your lordship—to avoid the public carping and complaints . 
moreover ,  urge his hateful luxury And bestial appetite in change of lust ,  Which stretched to their servants ,  daughters ,  wives ,  Even where his raging eye or savage heart ,  Without control ,  lusted to make his prey . 	there was no limit to what his lustful eye and savage heart would prey on . 
nay ,  for a need ,  thus far come near my person: Tell them when that my mother went with child Of that insatiate Edward ,  noble York My princely father then had wars in France ,  And ,  by true computation of the time ,  Found that the issue was not his begot ,  Which well appearèd in his lineaments ,  Being nothing like the noble duke my father . 	and ,  if you need to ,  approach the subject of me: tell them that when my mother became pregnant with the insatiable Edward ,  my noble father was fighting in France . 
yet touch this sparingly ,  as ’twere far off ,  Because ,  my lord ,  you know my mother lives . 	but only hint at this vaguely ,  because ,  as you know ,  my mother’s still alive . 
and so ,  my lord ,  adieu . 	goodbye ,  my lord . 
If you thrive well ,  bring them to Baynard’s Castle ,  Where you shall find me well accompanied With reverend fathers and well - learnèd bishops . 	If things go well ,  bring the crowd to  I’m off . 
I go; and towards three or four o'clock Look for the news that the Guildhall affords . 	around three or four o'clock ,  look for news from the meeting hall . 
go ,  Lovell ,  with all speed to Doctor Shaw . 	lovell ,  go as fast as you can to Doctor Shaw . 
now will I go to take some privy order To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight ,  And to give order that no manner of person Have any time recourse unto the princes . 	now I’ll go inside and write out a secret order to keep Clarence’s brats out of sight and to forbid anyone whatsoever from seeing King Edward’s sons . 
this is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings ,  Which in a set hand fairly is engrossed ,  That it may be today read o'er in Paul’s . 	here’s the indictment of the good Lord Hastings ,  which has been written out in a clear hand ,  like any legal document ,  so it can be read aloud in public outside St .  Paul’s Cathedral . 
here’s a good world the while . 	what a backward world we live in ! 
who is so gross That cannot see this palpable device ? 	why ,  who’s so stupid that he can’t see through this fraud ? 
bad is the world ,  and all will come to naught When such ill dealing must be seen in thought . 	the world is a bad place ,  where you can’t speak what you know . 
now ,  by the holy mother of our Lord ,  The citizens are mum ,  say not a word . 	It’s incredible—they didn’t say a word . 
touched you the bastardy of Edward’s children ? 	did you mention that Edward’s children are bastards ? 
no . 	I did . 
his answer was ,  the people were not used To be spoke to but by the recorder . 	he said that the people weren’t used to being spoken to except by the  What blocks of wood ! 
would not they speak ? 	they wouldn’t say anything ? 
will not the mayor then and his brethren come ? 	aren’t the mayor and his fellow citizens coming ? 
the mayor is here at hand . 	the mayor is here at hand . 
and look you get a prayer book in your hand And stand between two churchmen ,  good my lord ,  For on that ground I’ll make a holy descant . 	and make sure to carry a prayer book in your hand and to stand between two priests ,  okay ? 
and be not easily won to our requests . 	but don’t be easily won over . 
I go . 	I’m going now . 
an if you plead as well for them As I can say  “ nay ”  to thee for myself ,  No doubt we bring it to a happy issue . 	If you’re as good at pleading to them as I am at saying no to you ,  this will definitely come to a happy end . 
go ,  go ,  up to the leads . 	hurry ,  go up to the roof . 
the Lord Mayor knocks . 	the Lord Mayor is knocking . 
welcome ,  my lord . 	welcome ,  my lord . 
I think the duke will not be spoke withal . 	I don’t think he wants to be disturbed . 
now ,  Catesby ,  what says your lord to my request ? 	now ,  Catesby ,  what does your lord say to my request ? 
he doth entreat your Grace ,  my noble lord ,  To visit him tomorrow or next day . 	my lord ,  he asks that you please visit him tomorrow or the next day . 
return ,  good Catesby ,  to the gracious duke . 	return to the gracious duke ,  good Catesby . 
tell him myself ,  the mayor ,  and aldermen ,  No less importing than our general good ,  In deep designs ,  and matters of great moment Are come to have some conference with his grace . 	tell him that the mayor ,  some citizens ,  and I have come to confer with his grace in matters of great importance concerning the general good . 
I’ll signify so much unto him straight . 	I’ll tell him right away ,  my lord . 
ah ,  ha ,  my lord ,  this prince is not an Edward ! 	ah ,  my lord ,  this prince is nothing like Edward ! 
he is not lolling on a lewd love bed ,  But on his knees at meditation; Not dallying with a brace of courtesans ,  But meditating with two deep divines; Not sleeping ,  to engross his idle body ,  But praying ,  to enrich his watchful soul . 	he’s not sleeping to fatten up his lazy body ,  but praying ,  to nourish his attentive soul . 
happy were England would this virtuous prince Take on his grave the sovereignty thereof . 	england would be lucky to have this virtuous prince as king . 
but sure I fear we shall not win him to it . 	but I’m afraid we’ll never get him to agree to be king . 
marry ,  God defend his grace should say us nay ! 	but God forbid he says no to us ! 
I fear he will . 	I’m afraid he will . 
here Catesby comes again . 	here comes Catesby again . 
now ,  Catesby ,  what says his grace ? 	what’s up ,  Catesby ,  what does your master say ? 
he wonders to what end you have assembled Such troops of citizens to come to him ,  His grace not being warned thereof before . 	my lord ,  he wonders why you have assembled such troops of citizens to speak with him ,  since he had no idea they were coming . 
he fears ,  my lord ,  you mean no good to him . 	my lord ,  he’s afraid you mean him harm . 
sorry I am my noble cousin should Suspect me that I mean no good to him . 	I’m sorry my noble brother is suspicious of me . 
when holy and devout religious men Are at their beads ,  ’tis much to draw them thence ,  So sweet is zealous contemplation . 	when devoutly religious men are praying ,  it’s hard to draw them out of it ,  because they get lost in the wonder of their contemplation . 
see where his Grace stands ,  ’tween two clergymen . 	see how he stands between two clergymen ! 
my lord ,  there needs no such apology . 	my lord ,  you don’t need to apologize . 
I do beseech your Grace pardon me ,  Who ,  earnest in the service of my God ,  Deferred the visitation of my friends . 	I beg you to pardon me . 
I do suspect I have done some offense That seems disgracious in the city’s eye ,  And that you come to reprehend my ignorance . 	I suspect that I have committed some offence to the city and you have come to reprimand me for not knowing better . 
you have ,  my lord . 	you have ,  my lord . 
sweet saint ,  for charity ,  be not so curst . 	sweet saint ,  for goodness’s sake ,  don’t be so angry . 
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds ,  Behold this pattern of thy butcheries . 	If you enjoy looking at your awful deeds ,  take a look at this noteworthy example of your butcheries . 
o ,  gentlemen ,  see ,  see dead Henry’s wounds Open their congealed mouths and bleed afresh ! — Blush ,  blush ,  thou lump of foul deformity ,  For ’tis thy presence that exhales this blood From cold and empty veins where no blood dwells . 	It’s your presence that draws out this blood from his empty veins . 
o earth ,  which this blood drink’st revenge his death ! 	oh earth ,  which soaks up this blood ,  revenge his death ! 
either heaven with lightning strike the murderer dead ,  Or earth gape open wide and eat him quick ,  As thou dost swallow up this good king’s blood ,  Which his hell - governed arm hath butcherèd ! 	either let heaven send lightning to strike the murderer dead or let the earth open wide and devour him ,  as it does this good king’s blood . 
If not to answer ,  you might haply think Tongue - tied ambition ,  not replying ,  yielded To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty ,  Which fondly you would here impose on me . 	If I don’t answer ,  perhaps you’ll think I’m accepting the heavy responsibility you foolishly want to impose on me . 
first ,  if all obstacles were cut away And that my path were even to the crown As the ripe revenue and due of birth ,  Yet so much is my poverty of spirit ,  So mighty and so many my defects ,  That I would rather hide me from my greatness ,  Being a bark to brook no mighty sea ,  Than in my greatness covet to be hid And in the vapor of my glory smothered . 	first of all ,  even if all the obstacles were eliminated and my path led straight to the crown—if it were truly my birthright—I would rather hide from my greatness than hide inside the greatness of the position itself and be smothered by it . 
but ,  God be thanked ,  there is no need of me ,  And much I need to help you ,  were there need . 	so ,  thank God ,  there is no real need for me ,  as I wouldn’t be able to help you much . 
the royal tree hath left us royal fruit ,  Which ,  mellowed by the stealing hours of time ,  Will well become the seat of majesty ,  And make ,  no doubt ,  us happy by his reign . 	the royal tree has left us other fruit ,  which ,  with time ,  will do just fine on the throne and make us all happy as king ,  I’m sure . 
on him I lay what you would lay on me ,  The right and fortune of his happy stars ,  Which God defend that I should wring from him . 	god forbid that I snatch the crown from him . 
for first was he contract to Lady Lucy— Your mother lives a witness to that vow— And afterward by substitute betrothed To Bona ,  sister to the king of France . 	king Edward was going to marry Lady Lucy—your mother can vouch for that—and then he was betrothed to Bona ,  the King of France’s sister - in - law . 
these both put off ,  a poor petitioner ,  A care - crazed mother to a many sons ,  A beauty - waning and distressèd widow ,  Even in the afternoon of her best days ,  Made prize and purchase of his wanton eye ,  Seduced the pitch and height of his degree To base declension and loathed bigamy . 	but both of these were put off by Elizabeth Grey ,  a careworn mother of many children who had once been a beauty but was now a stressed - out widow long past her prime . 
refuse not ,  mighty lord ,  this proffered love . 	don’t refuse the love we offer you . 
o ,  make them joyful . 	oh ,  make them joyful ! 
grant their lawful suit . 	grant their law - abiding request ! 
alas ,  why would you heap this care on me ? 	alas ,  why would you heap all these responsibilities on me ? 
I am unfit for state and majesty . 	I am unfit to rule and to be king . 
I do beseech you ,  take it not amiss; I cannot ,  nor I will not ,  yield to you . 	please ,  don’t take it badly ,  but I cannot and will not give in to you . 
zounds ,  I’ll entreat no more . 	but listen ,  if
o ,  do not swear ,  my lord of Buckingham ! 	oh ,  please don’t swear ,  my lord of Buckingham . 
If you deny them ,  all the land will rue it . 	If you refuse it ,  the whole country will regret it . 
will you enforce me to a world of cares ? 	would you tie me to a whole world of worries ? 
call them again . 	well ,  call them back again . 
I am not made of stones ,  But penetrable to your kind entreaties ,  Albeit against my conscience and my soul . 	I am not made of stone; I am affected by all these kind pleas ,  though it goes against my conscience and my soul . 
god bless your Grace ! 	god bless your Grace ! 
we see it and will say it . 	we understand you’re just doing it for us ,  and we’ll be sure to say so . 
In saying so ,  you shall but say the truth . 	If you say that ,  you’ll only be telling the truth . 
then I salute you with this royal title: Long live Richard ,  England’s worthy king ! 	then I salute you with this royal title: long live Richard ,  England’s worthy king ! 
amen . 	amen . 
tomorrow will it please you to be crowned ? 	will you be crowned tomorrow ? 
even when you please ,  since you will have it so . 	whenever you want ,  since you’re the one who wants it . 
who meets us here ? 	who’s this ? 
my niece Plantagenet Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester ? 	my granddaughter ,  with her kind aunt ,  the duchess of Gloucester ,  leading her by the hand ? 
now ,  for my life ,  she’s wandering to the Tower ,  On pure heart’s love ,  to greet the tender prince . — Daughter ,  well met . 	now ,  on my life ,  the young child must be headed to the Tower to greet the young princes ,  whom she adores . 
whither away ? 	where are you going ? 
no farther than the Tower ,  and ,  as I guess ,  Upon the like devotion as yourselves ,  To gratulate the gentle princes there . 	just to the Tower—I’m guessing ,  for the same reason you are: to salute the noble princes who are staying there . 
kind sister ,  thanks . 	yes ,  kind sister . 
we’ll enter all together . 	we can all go together . 
and in good time here the lieutenant comes . — Master Lieutenant ,  pray you ,  by your leave ,  How doth the prince and my young son of York ? 	and here comes the warden ,  just in time . 
right well ,  dear madam . 	they’re just fine ,  my dear madam . 
by your patience ,  I may not suffer you to visit them . 	but I’m sorry—I’m not allowed to let you visit them . 
the king hath strictly charged the contrary . 	the king has strictly forbidden it . 
the king ? 	the king ? 
who’s that ? 	who’s that ? 
I mean ,  the Lord Protector . 	I meant to say the Lord Protector . 
the Lord protect him from that kingly title ! 	the Lord keep him from the title of king ! 
hath he set bounds between their love and me ? 	richard has set boundaries between my love and theirs ? 
I am their mother . 	I am their mother . 
who shall bar me from them ? 	who’s going to keep me from them ? 
I am their father’s mother . 	I am their father’s mother . 
I will see them . 	I will see them . 
their aunt I am in law ,  in love their mother . 	I am their aunt ,  and I love them like a mother . 
then bring me to their sights . 	so take me to see them . 
I’ll bear thy blame And take thy office from thee ,  on my peril . 	officer ,  I’ll take the responsibility from you ,  and the blame too . 
no ,  madam ,  no . 	no ,  madam ,  no . 
I may not leave it so . 	I can’t do this . 
I am bound by oath ,  and therefore pardon me . 	I am bound by oath ,  so please forgive me . 
let me but meet you ladies one hour hence ,  And I’ll salute your Grace of York as mother And reverend looker - on ,  of two fair queens . 	In just an hour from now ,  Duchess of York ,  I’ll be saluting you as the mother of two beautiful queens . 
ah ,  cut my lace asunder ,  That my pent heart may have some scope to beat ,  Or else I swoon with this dead - killing news ! 	oh ,  cut my bodice - staps so that my pent - up heart can have some room to breathe ,  or I’ll faint from this deadly news ! 
o ,  unpleasing news ! 	cruel ,  cruel news ! 
thy mother’s name is ominous to children . 	your mother’s name has become a threat to her own children . 
you shall have letters from me to my son In your behalf ,  to meet you on the way . 	I’ll write to my stepson Richmond on your behalf ,  so that he’ll meet you on the way . 
be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay . 	but don’t delay . 
o ill - dispersing wind of misery ! 	o ,  this evil wind that spreads nothing but misery . 
and I in all unwillingness will go . 	It has hatched a    I go unwillingly . 
o ,  would to God that the inclusive verge Of golden metal that must round my brow Were red - hot steel to sear me to the brains ! 	I wish to God that the golden crown that I’ll have to wear were red - hot steel and burned me straight through to the brain ! 
to feed my humor ,  wish thyself no harm . 	If you want to make me happy ,  don’t wish yourself harm . 
no ? 	no ? 
why ? 	why ? 
poor heart ,  adieu . 	every night I’m awakened by his  Poor dear ,  goodbye . 
I pity thy complaining . 	I pity your situation . 
no more than from my soul I mourn for yours . 	no more than I do yours . 
farewell ,  thou woeful welcomer of glory . 	goodbye . 
rude ragged nurse ,  old sullen playfellow For tender princes ,  use my babies well . 	you are a rude ,  ragged nurse and an old ,  sullen playmate for such tender princes . 
so foolish sorrows bids your stones farewell . 	please treat my babies well . 
lady ,  you know no rules of charity ,  Which renders good for bad ,  blessings for curses . 	dear woman ,  you don’t know the rules of charity . 
villain ,  thou know’st not law of God nor man . 	villain ,  you don’t know the laws of God or of man . 
no beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity . 	even the fiercest wild animal has some touch of pity . 
but I know none ,  and therefore am no beast . 	If I know nothing about pity ,  that must mean I’m not an animal . 
more wonderful ,  when angels are so angry . 	It’s even stranger when an angel is so angry . 
vouchsafe ,  divine perfection of a woman ,  Of these supposèd crimes to give me leave By circumstance but to acquit myself . 	divine ,  perfect woman ,  give me a chance to prove in detail that I’m innocent of the evils you accuse me of . 
vouchsafe ,  defused infection of a man ,  Of these known evils but to give me leave By circumstance to curse thy cursèd self . 	contagious infection of humanity ,  give me a chance to condemn you for the evils I know you’ve committed . 
fairer than tongue can name thee ,  let me have Some patient leisure to excuse myself . 	you who are beautiful beyond words ,  calm down and let me explain myself . 
fouler than heart can think thee ,  thou canst make No excuse current but to hang thyself . 	you who are wicked beyond belief ,  the only  “ explanation ”  I’ll accept from you is for you to hang yourself . 
by such despair I should accuse myself . 	such an expression of despair would only prove that I was guilty . 
my gracious sovereign . 	my gracious king . 
give me thy hand . 	give me your hand . 
thus high ,  by thy advice And thy assistance is King Richard seated . 	because of your advice and your help ,  I have a high position now . 
but shall we wear these glories for a day ,  Or shall they last and we rejoice in them ? 	but will I wear these honors for only a day or will I enjoy them for a long time ? 
still live they ,  and forever let them last . 	let them last forever . 
ah ,  Buckingham ,  now do I play the touch ,  To try if thou be current gold indeed . 	oh Buckingham ,  now I’m going to test to see if you’re truly made of gold . 
young Edward lives; think now what I would speak . 	young Prince Edward is still alive—what do you think I’m going to say next ? 
say on ,  my loving lord . 	go on ,  my loving lord . 
ha ! 	ha ! 
tis so—but Edward lives . 	but Edward is still alive . 
true ,  noble prince . 	true ,  noble prince . 
o bitter consequence That Edward still should live  “ true noble prince ”  ! 	oh ,  how bitter it is that Edward—the real  “ true ,  noble prince ” —should still be alive ! 
cousin ,  thou wast not wont to be so dull . 	cousin ,  you didn’t used to be so thickheaded . 
shall I be plain ? 	shall I put it plainly ? 
what sayest thou now ? 	what do you say ? 
your Grace may do your pleasure . 	your Grace can do whatever he wants . 
tut ,  tut ,  thou art all ice; thy kindness freezes . 	tut ,  tut ,  you’ve become rather icy . 
say ,  have I thy consent that they shall die ? 	tell me ,  do I have your consent to kill them ? 
give me some little breath ,  some pause ,  dear lord ,  Before I positively speak in this . 	give me a little breathing space ,  my lord ,  a little pause to think . 
I will resolve you herein presently . 	I’ll let you know my answer shortly . 
and unrespective boys . 	my lord ? 
know’st thou not any whom corrupting gold Will tempt unto a close exploit of death ? 	do you know anyone who would kill someone for money ? 
what is his name ? 	what’s his name ? 
his name ,  my lord ,  is Tyrrel . 	his name is Tyrrel ,  my lord . 
I partly know the man . 	I know the man a bit . 
go ,  call him hither ,  boy   No more shall be the neighbor to my counsels Hath he so long held out with me ,  untired ,  And stops he now for breath ? 	go ,  bring him here ,  boy . 
well ,  be it so . 	look who’s here ! 
how now ,  Lord Stanley ,  what’s the news ? 	what’s the news with you ? 
know ,  my long lord ,  The marquess Dorset ,  as I hear ,  is fled To Richmond ,  in the parts where he abides . 	you should know ,  my loving lord ,  I’ve heard that the marquess Dorset has fled to Brittany ,  to the earl of Richmond . 
come hither ,  Catesby . 	come here ,  Catesby . 
rumor it abroad That Anne my wife is very grievous sick . 	spread the rumor abroad that Anne ,  my wife ,  is very sick . 
Inquire me out some mean poor gentleman ,  Whom I will marry straight to Clarence' daughter . 	and find a poverty stricken gentleman who I can marry straightaway to Clarence’s daughter . 
look how thou dream’st ! 	look at you ,  standing there in a stupor ! 
I say again ,  give out That Anne my queen is sick and like to die . 	I repeat ,  spread the rumor that Anne ,  my wife ,  is sick and likely to die . 
Is thy name Tyrrel ? 	are you Tyrrel ? 
james Tyrrel ,  and your most obedient subject . 	james Tyrrel—and your most obedient subject . 
art thou indeed ? 	are you indeed ? 
dar’st thou resolve to kill a friend of mine ? 	do you dare kill a friend of mine ? 
why then ,  thou hast it . 	well ,  that’s what you get to do . 
two deep enemies ,  Foes to my rest ,  and my sweet sleep’s disturbers ,  Are they that I would have thee deal upon . 	two great enemies ,  in fact ,  enemies to my peace of mind . 
tyrrel ,  I mean those bastards in the Tower . 	tyrrel ,  I mean those bastards in the Tower . 
let me have open means to come to them ,  And soon I’ll rid you from the fear of them . 	give me access to them ,  and soon you won’t have to worry about them anymore . 
thou sing’st sweet music . 	that’s music to my ears . 
hark ,  come hither ,  Tyrrel . 	come here ,  Tyrrel . 
go ,  by this token . 	by this token ,  you’ll be admitted to their cell . 
rise ,  and lend thine ear . 	get up and listen to me . 
there is no more but so . 	that’s all there is to it . 
say it is done ,  And I will love thee and prefer thee for it . 	as soon as the deed is done ,  you will be in my favor and I will promote you . 
I will dispatch it straight . 	I’ll do it right away . 
my lord ,  I have considered in my mind The late request that you did sound me in . 	my lord ,  I have thought over the request you just made of me . 
well ,  let that rest . 	well ,  it doesn’t matter anymore . 
dorset is fled to Richmond . 	dorset has fled to the earl of Richmond . 
I hear the news ,  my lord . 	I heard the news ,  my lord . 
stanley ,  he is your wife’s son . 	stanley ,  Richmond is your wife’s son . 
well ,  look unto it . 	get information from her . 
my lord ,  I claim the gift ,  my due by promise ,  For which your honor and your faith is pawned— Th' earldom of Hereford and the movables Which you promisèd I shall possess . 	my lord ,  I’d want to have the gift you promised me on your honor: the earldom of Hereford and all the possessions that go with it . 
stanley ,  look to your wife . 	stanley ,  pay attention to your wife’s doings . 
If she convey Letters to Richmond ,  you shall answer it . 	If she sends any letters to Richmond ,  you will be accountable to me for it . 
what says your Highness to my just request ? 	what do you say ,  your Highness ,  about my just request ? 
I do remember me ,  Henry the Sixth Did prophesy that Richmond should be king ,  When Richmond was a little peevish boy . 	as I remember ,  Henry the Sixth prophesied that Richmond would be king when Richmond was only a foolish little boy . 
a king ,  perhaps— My lord— How chance the prophet could not at that time Have told me ,  I being by ,  that I should kill him ? 	a king ,  perhaps— My lord— How is it that the prophet didn’t tell me at the time that I would kill him ? 
my lord ,  your promise for the earldom— Richmond ! 	my lord ,  your promise of the earldom— Richmond ! 
when last I was at Exeter ,  The mayor in courtesy showed me the castle And called it Rougemont ,  at which name I started ,  Because a bard of Ireland told me once I should not live long after I saw Richmond . 	the last time I was in Exeter ,  the mayor kindly showed me the castle there and called it  “  My lord ! 
my Lord— Ay ,  what’s o'clock ? 	yes ,  what time is it ? 
I am thus bold to put your Grace in mind Of what you promised me . 	I’m reminding your grace what you promised me . 
well ,  but what’s o'clock ? 	well ,  but what time is it ? 
upon the stroke of ten . 	It’s almost ten o'clock . 
well ,  let it strike . 	well ,  let it strike ten then . 
why let it strike ? 	why  “ let it strike ”  ? 
because that ,  like a jack ,  thou keep’st the stroke Betwixt thy begging and my meditation . 	because you’re like the lowborn fellow who strikes the bell—you keep interrupting my thoughts . 
I am not in the giving vein today . 	I am not in the giving mood today . 
why then ,  resolve me whether you will or no . 	you’re bothering me . 
thou troublest me; I am not in the vein . 	I’m not in the mood . 
and is it thus ? 	Is this really happening ? 
repays he my deep service With such deep contempt ? 	does he reward my dedicated service with such deep contempt ? 
made I him king for this ? 	did I work to make him king for this ? 
o ,  let me think on Hastings and be gone To Brecknock ,  while my fearful head is on ! 	oh ,  let me remember what happened to Hastings and hurry to
the tyrannous and bloody act is done ,  The most arch deed of piteous massacre That ever yet this land was guilty of . 	It was the most ruthless massacre this country has ever been guilty of . 
dighton and Forrest ,  whom I did suborn To do this piece of ruthless butchery ,  Albeit they were fleshed villains ,  bloody dogs ,  Melted with tenderness and mild compassion ,  Wept like two children in their deaths' sad story . 	dighton and Forrest ,  whom I hired to perform the butchery ,  are used to killing people ,  the bloody dogs . 
their lips were four red roses on a stalk ,  And in their summer beauty kissed each other . 	their lips ,  like four red roses on a stalk ,  touched . 
kind Tyrrel ,  am I happy in thy news ? 	kind Tyrrel ,  will your news make me happy ? 
If to have done the thing you gave in charge Beget your happiness ,  be happy then ,  For it is done . 	If my doing what you told me to makes you happy ,  then be happy ,  because I did it . 
but did’st thou see them dead ? 	but did you see them dead ? 
I did ,  my lord . 	I did ,  my lord . 
and buried ,  gentle Tyrrel ? 	and buried ,  noble Tyrrel ? 
the chaplain of the Tower hath buried them ,  But where ,  to say the truth ,  I do not know . 	the Tower’s chaplain has buried them ,  but to tell you the truth ,  I don’t know where . 
come to me ,  Tyrrel ,  soon at after - supper ,  When thou shalt tell the process of their death . 	tyrrel ,  come back shortly after dinner and tell me the details of their deaths . 
meantime ,  but think how I may do thee good ,  And be inheritor of thy desire . 	In the meantime ,  think about how I can do you good and give you what you want . 
farewell till then . 	see you soon . 
I humbly take my leave . 	I humbly say goodbye . 
the son of Clarence have I pent up close ,  His daughter meanly have I matched in marriage ,  The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham’s bosom ,  And Anne my wife hath bid this world goodnight . 	edward’s sons have been carried off by the angels and Anne ,  my wife ,  has bid good night to the world . 
now ,  for I know the Breton Richmond aims At young Elizabeth ,  my brother’s daughter ,  And by that knot looks proudly on the crown ,  To her go I ,  a jolly thriving wooer . 	now I go ,  a jolly ,  thriving wooer ,  to marry my brother Edward’s young daughter ,  Elizabeth ,  because I know Richmond has his eye on her . 
my lord ! 	my lord ! 
good or bad news ,  that thou com’st in so bluntly ? 	Is the news good or bad that you enter without knocking ? 
bad news ,  my lord . 	bad news ,  my lord . 
morton is fled to Richmond ,  And Buckingham ,  backed with the hardy Welshmen ,  Is in the field ,  and still his power increaseth . 	the Bishop of Ely has fled to Richmond ,  and Buckingham ,  backed by a hardy Welsh army ,  is on the march . 
ely with Richmond troubles me more near Than Buckingham and his rash - levied strength . 	ely joining Richmond troubles me more than Buckingham and his quickly assembled army . 
say that I slew them not . 	let’s say I didn’t kill them . 
then say they were not slain . 	then you might as well say they’re not dead . 
but dead they are ,  and devilish slave ,  by thee . 	but they are dead ,  and you killed them ,  you slave of the devil . 
I did not kill your husband . 	I did not kill your husband . 
why then ,  he is alive . 	well ,  then he must be alive . 
In thy foul throat thou liest . 	you’re lying . 
queen Margaret saw Thy murd'rous falchion smoking in his blood ,  The which thou once didst bend against her breast ,  But that thy brothers beat aside the point . 	queen Margaret saw your sword steaming with his blood . 
I was provokèd by her sland'rous tongue ,  That laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders . 	she provoked me with her lying mouth ,  accusing me of crimes I didn’t commit . 
thou wast provokèd by thy bloody mind ,  That never dream’st on aught but butcheries . 	no ,  what provoked you was your own bloody mind ,  which never thinks about anything but butchering . 
didst thou not kill this king ? 	you killed this king ,  didn’t you ? 
I grant you . 	yes ,  I’ll grant you that . 
dost grant me ,  hedgehog ? 	you’ll grant me ,  you hedgehog ? 
then ,  God grant me too Thou mayst be damnèd for that wicked deed . 	then let God grant me that you’ll be damned for that wicked deed . 
o ,  he was gentle ,  mild ,  and virtuous . 	oh ,  he was gentle ,  mild ,  and virtuous . 
the better for the King of heaven that hath him . 	that will please God ,  who has him now . 
he is in heaven ,  where thou shalt never come . 	he is in heaven ,  where you will never go . 
let him thank me ,  that holp to send him thither ,  For he was fitter for that place than earth . 	let him thank me ,  who helped him get there . 
here in these confines slyly have I lurked To watch the waning of mine enemies . 	I’ve lurked in the shadows here to watch the downfall of my enemies . 
a dire induction am I witness to ,  And will to France ,  hoping the consequence Will prove as bitter ,  black ,  and tragical . 	I’ll head to France soon . 
withdraw thee ,  wretched Margaret . 	It’s time to hide ,  wretched Margaret . 
who comes here ? 	who’s coming ? 
ah ,  my poor princes ! 	ah ,  my poor princes ! 
ah ,  my tender babes ,  My unblown flowers ,  new - appearing sweets ,  If yet your gentle souls fly in the air And be not fixed in doom perpetual ,  Hover about me with your airy wings And hear your mother’s lamentation . 	If your gentle souls are still flying in the air and have not yet landed where they will remain forever ,  hover around me with your airy wings and hear your mother’s lament . 
hover about her; say that right for right Hath dimmed your infant morn to agèd night . 	hover about her and tell her she got what she deserved ,  with her children dead before their time . 
so many miseries have crazed my voice That my woe - wearied tongue is still and mute . 	I’ve been crazed with so many miseries that my tongue has tired of lamenting and gone mute . 
edward Plantagenet ,  why art thou dead ? 	edward Plantagenet ,  why are you dead ? 
wilt thou ,  O God ,  fly from such gentle lambs And throw them in the entrails of the wolf ? 	will you abandon such gentle lambs ,  God ,  and throw them to the wolves ? 
when didst thou sleep when such a deed was done ? 	have you ever slept before while such a terrible deed was done ? 
give mine the benefit of seigniory ,  And let my griefs frown on the upper hand . 	let my sorrow have the upper hand . 
I had a Richard too ,  and thou did’st kill him; I had a Rutland too; thou holp’st to kill him . 	you had a Clarence ,  too ,  and Richard killed him . 
o upright ,  just ,  and true - disposing God ,  How do I thank thee that this carnal cur Preys on the issue of his mother’s body And makes her pew - fellow with others' moan ! 	oh righteous God ,  how can I thank you enough that this meat - eating mutt preys on his mother’s children and forces her to join others in their grief ! 
o Harry’s wife ,  triumph not in my woes ! 	o Harry’s wife ,  do not triumph in my sorrow ! 
god witness with me ,  I have wept for thine . 	with God as my witness ,  I swear I have wept for yours . 
thy Edward he is dead ,  that killed my Edward ,  Thy other Edward dead ,  to quit my Edward; Young York ,  he is but boot ,  because both they Matched not the high perfection of my loss . 	your son Edward ,  who stabbed my son Edward ,  is dead . 
thy Clarence he is dead that stabbed my Edward ,  And the beholders of this frantic play ,  Th' adulterate Hastings ,  Rivers ,  Vaughan ,  Grey ,  Untimely smothered in their dusky graves . 	your Clarence ,  who stabbed my Edward ,  is also dead . 
richard yet lives ,  hell’s black intelligencer ,  Only reserved their factor to buy souls And send them thither . 	richard ,  a fiendish spy for hell itself ,  still lives ,  but only long enough to buy souls to send below . 
cancel his bond of life ,  dear God I pray ,  That I may live to say ,   “ The dog is dead .  ” 	I pray that God ends his life before I die ,  so I can say ,   “ The dog is dead !  ” 
o ,  thou didst prophesy the time would come That I should wish for thee to help me curse That bottled spider ,  that foul bunch - backed toad ! 	oh ,  you prophesied that the time would come when I would want your help in cursing that humpbacked spider ,  that hideous toad ! 
I called thee then  “ vain flourish of my fortune .  ”  I called thee then poor shadow ,   “ painted queen ,  ”  The presentation of but what I was ,  The flattering index of a direful pageant ,  One heaved a - high ,  to be hurled down below ,  A mother only mocked with two fair babes ,  A dream of what thou wast ,  a garish flag To be the aim of every dangerous shot ,  A sign of dignity ,  a breath ,  a bubble ,  A queen in jest ,  only to fill the scene . 	back then ,  I called you  “ a poor ,  imitation queen ,  ”  a badly reproduced copy of what I was ,  a pretty prologue for the tragedy that was about to follow ,  a woman who was lifted high only to be hurled down to hell ,  a mother only teased with two beautiful children ,  who would soon die . 
where is thy husband now ? 	and I was right ,  because where’s your husband now ? 
where be thy brothers ? 	your brothers ? 
where are thy two sons ? 	your two sons ? 
thus hath the course of justice whirled about And left thee but a very prey to time ,  Having no more but thought of what thou wast To torture thee the more ,  being what thou art . 	now you have only the memory of what you were ,  which tortures you when you consider what you’ve become . 
thou didst usurp my place ,  and dost thou not Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow ? 	you once stole my position; now you get to have the grief that goes with it . 
these English woes will make me smile in France . 	your English sorrows will make me smile in France . 
o ,  thou well - skilled in curses ,  stay awhile ,  And teach me how to curse mine enemies . 	you who are so skilled in cursing ,  stay awhile and teach me how to curse my enemies . 
forbear to sleep the nights ,  and fast the days; Compare dead happiness with living woe; Think that thy babes were sweeter than they were ,  And he that slew them fouler than he is . 	remember your children as being sweeter than they actually were ,  and think of the man who killed them as worse than he is . 
bettering thy loss makes the bad causer worse . 	making your loss greater makes the person who caused it worse . 
revolving this will teach thee how to curse . 	think like this all day ,  and you’ll learn how to curse . 
my words are dull . 	my words are dull . 
o ,  quicken them with thine ! 	enliven them with yours ! 
thy woes will make them sharp and pierce like mine . 	your misery will make them sharp and piercing like mine . 
why should calamity be full of words ? 	but give words a chance . 
If so ,  then be not tongue - tied . 	If that’s true ,  then don’t be tongue - tied . 
go with me ,  And in the breath of bitter words let’s smother My damnèd son that thy two sweet sons smothered . 	come with me ,  and let’s smother my fiendish son—who smothered your two sweet sons—in bitter words . 
who intercepts my expedition ? 	who’s blocking the way ? 
o ,  she that might have intercepted thee ,  By strangling thee in her accursèd womb ,  From all the slaughters ,  wretch ,  that thou hast done . 	the woman who might have blocked you from all the murders you’ve committed by strangling you in her cursed womb . 
hid’st thou that forehead with a golden crown Where should be branded ,  if that right were right ,  The slaughter of the prince that owed that crown And the dire death of my poor sons and brothers ? 	are you hiding your forehead with a golden crown ,  when ,  if there was any justice in this world ,  it should be branded with the murders you committed—your slaughter of the prince who held that crown ,  and of my sons and my brothers ? 
tell me ,  thou villain - slave ,  where are my children ? 	tell me ,  you villainous lowlife ,  where are my children ? 
where is gentle Rivers ,  Vaughan ,  Grey ? 	where are the noble Hastings ,  Rivers ,  Vaughan ,  Grey ? 
where is kind Hastings ? 	where is kind Hastings ? 
strike alarum ,  drums ! 	play ,  trumpets ! 
let not the heavens hear these telltale women Rail on the Lord’s anointed . 	don’t let the heavens hear these chattery women abuse the Lord’s anointed king . 
strike ,  I say ! 	play ,  I say ! 
either be patient and entreat me fair ,  Or with the clamorous report of war Thus will I drown your exclamations . 	either be calm and polite or I’ll drown you out with the music of war . 
art thou my son ? 	are you my son ? 
ay ,  I thank God ,  my father ,  and yourself . 	yes ,  I thank God ,  my father ,  and yourself . 
then patiently hear my impatience . 	then patiently listen to my impatience . 
madam ,  I have a touch of your condition ,  Which cannot brook the accent of reproof . 	madam ,  I’m a bit like you in that I can’t tolerate a tone of disapproval . 
o ,  let me speak ! 	oh ,  let me speak ! 
do then ,  but I’ll not hear . 	go ahead ,  but I won’t listen . 
I will be mild and gentle in my words . 	I’ll be gentle and mild . 
and brief ,  good mother ,  for I am in haste . 	and brief ,  good mother—I’m in a hurry . 
art thou so hasty ? 	are you that impatient ? 
I have stayed for thee ,  God knows ,  in torment and in agony . 	god knows I waited for you in anguish ,  pain ,  and agony when I gave birth to you . 
and came I not at last to comfort you ? 	and didn’t I finally arrive to comfort you ? 
what comfortable hour canst thou name ,  That ever graced me in thy company ? 	so ,  what hour of comfort have I ever had in your company ? 
faith ,  none but Humfrey Hower ,  that called your Grace To breakfast once ,  forth of my company . 	name one . 
I prithee ,  hear me speak . 	you’re too bitter . 
you speak too bitterly . 	just listen this once . 
hear me a word ,  For I shall never speak to thee again . 	I’ll never speak to you again . 
so . 	so be it . 
though far more cause ,  yet much less spirit to curse Abides in me . 	though I have far more reason ,  I don’t have as much energy to curse you . 
I say amen to her . 	but I say amen to everything she said . 
stay ,  madam . 	wait ,  madam . 
I must talk a word with you . 	I need to speak a word with you . 
I have no more sons of the royal blood For thee to slaughter . 	I have no more royal sons for you to murder . 
you have a daughter called Elizabeth ,  Virtuous and fair ,  royal and gracious . 	you have a daughter named Elizabeth ,  who is virtuous and beautiful ,  aristocratic and full of grace . 
and must she die for this ? 	and does she have to die for this ? 
o ,  let her live ,  And I’ll corrupt her manners ,  stain her beauty ,  Slander myself as false to Edward’s bed ,  Throw over her the veil of infamy . 	oh ,  let her live ,  and I’ll ruin her manners and her beauty . 
so she may live unscarred of bleeding slaughter ,  I will confess she was not Edward’s daughter . 	so that she may live ,  I’ll say I cheated on Edward and that she is not really his child . 
wrong not her birth . 	don’t wrong her birth . 
she is a royal princess . 	she has royal blood . 
to save her life ,  I’ll say she is not so . 	to save her life ,  I’ll say she doesn’t . 
and only in that safety died her brothers . 	yes ,  as safe as her brothers' lives were . 
no ,  to their lives ill friends were contrary . 	bad friends were . 
my babes were destined to a fairer death If grace had blessed thee with a fairer life . 	my children would have enjoyed a better death if God had blessed you with a purer life . 
whose hand soever launched their tender hearts ,  Thy head ,  all indirectly ,  gave direction . 	whichever hand literally stabbed their tender hearts ,  you’re the one who gave the order . 
no doubt the murd'rous knife was dull and blunt Till it was whetted on thy stone - hard heart ,  To revel in the entrails of my lambs . 	no doubt the murderous knife was blunt till it was sharpened on your stony heart—you reveled in my lambs' bloody guts . 
but that still use of grief makes wild grief tame ,  My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys Till that my nails were anchored in thine eyes ,  And I ,  in such a desp'rate bay of death ,  Like a poor bark of sails and tackling reft ,  Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom . 	but constant expression of wild grief will only make it tame ,  so I’m not going to say any more about my boys until I’ve gouged your eyes out with my bare hands . 
madam ,  so thrive I in my enterprise And dangerous success of bloody wars As I intend more good to you and yours Than ever you or yours were by me harmed ! 	madam ,  if I do as well as I think I’m going to do in these dangerous ,  violent wars ,  you and your relatives will have more good at my hands than you’ve ever had bad ! 
what good is covered with the face of heaven ,  To be discovered ,  that can do me good ? 	what good does heaven have in store that can do me any good now ? 
the advancement of your children ,  gentle lady . 	the advancement of your children ,  noble lady . 
up to some scaffold ,  there to lose their heads . 	advancement to some scaffold ,  to lose their heads . 
unto the dignity and height of fortune ,  The high imperial type of this earth’s glory . 	no ,  advancement to the dignity and height of honor ,  to a high ,  imperial kind of glory . 
and thou unfit for any place but hell . 	and you’re not suited for any place except hell . 
yes ,  one place else ,  if you will hear me name it . 	yes ,  and one other place ,  if you’ll only let me name it . 
some dungeon . 	some dungeon . 
your bedchamber . 	your bedroom . 
Ill rest betide the chamber where thou liest ! 	there is no rest to be had in any bedroom where you are ! 
so will it ,  madam till I lie with you . 	exactly ,  madam ,  until I sleep with you . 
be brief ,  lest that the process of thy kindness Last longer telling than thy kindness' date . 	well ,  explain—but do it fast so that your puny store of kindness isn’t used up by talking about it . 
then know that from my soul I love thy daughter . 	then know that from my soul I love your daughter . 
my daughter’s mother thinks it with her soul . 	I believe it . 
what do you think ? 	what do you believe ? 
that thou dost love my daughter from thy soul . 	that you love my daughter to spite your soul . 
be not so hasty to confound my meaning . 	don’t be so quick to twist my meaning . 
even he that makes her queen . 	the one who makes her queen ,  of course . 
who else should be ? 	who else should it be ? 
what ,  thou ? 	what ,  you ? 
how think you of it ? 	what do you think ,  madam ? 
how canst thou woo her ? 	how would you woo her ? 
madam ,  with all my heart . 	and  Madam ,  with all my heart . 
you mock me ,  madam . 	come ,  come ,  you’re making fun of me . 
this is not the way To win your daughter . 	this is not the way to win your daughter . 
there is no other way ,  Unless thou couldst put on some other shape And not be Richard ,  that hath done all this . 	there isn’t any other way ,  unless you took on another form and became someone else . 
say that I did all this for love of her . 	but suppose I did all the things you named out of love for her . 
nay ,  then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee ,  Having bought love with such a bloody spoil . 	then she has no choice but to hate you ,  as you purchased her love with murder . 
look what is done cannot be now amended . 	whatever has already been done can’t be undone now . 
men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes ,  Which after - hours give leisure to repent . 	men act imprudently sometimes ,  then realize their mistakes when they have time to think about them . 
If I did take the kingdom from your sons ,  To make amends I’ll give it to your daughter . 	If I took the kingdom from your sons ,  I’ll give it to your daughter to make up for it . 
If I have killed the issue of your womb ,  To quicken your increase I will beget Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter . 	If I have killed your children ,  I will have children with your daughter . 
a grandam’s name is little less in love Than is the doting title of a mother . 	a grandmother is loved hardly less than a mother is . 
your children were vexation to your youth ,  But mine shall be a comfort to your age . 	your children caused you trouble in your youth ,  but mine will bring you comfort in your old age . 
I cannot make you what amends I would; Therefore accept such kindness as I can . 	I can’t make up for everything that I’d like to ,  so accept such kindness as I can offer . 
what ,  we have many goodly days to see ! 	Indeed ,  we have many good days to look forward to ! 
go then ,  my mother; to thy daughter go . 	go ,  then ,  mother ,  to your daughter . 
what were I best to say ? 	what should I say to her ? 
her father’s brother Would be her lord ? 	that her father’s brother wants to be her husband ? 
or shall I say her uncle ? 	or should I say it’s her uncle ? 
or he that slew her brothers and her uncles ? 	or should I describe you as the one who killed her brothers and her uncles ? 
under what title shall I woo for thee ,  That God ,  the law ,  my honor and her love Can make seem pleasing to her tender years ? 	how can I describe you that will make you appeal to the young woman and will also agree with God ,  the law ,  my honor ,  and her feelings ? 
Infer fair England’s peace by this alliance . 	claim fair England’s peace depends on this alliance . 
which she shall purchase with still - lasting war . 	she will purchase that peace with an everlasting war . 
tell her the king ,  that may command ,  entreats— That ,  at her hands ,  which the king’s King forbids . 	tell her that the king ,  who has the power to command people ,  asks her . 
say she shall be a high and mighty queen . 	he asks her to do what God  Say she will be a high and mighty queen . 
to vail the title ,  as her mother doth . 	only to watch that title become worthless ,  as her mother has . 
say I will love her everlastingly . 	say I will love her everlastingly . 
but how long shall that title  “ ever ”  last ? 	but how long will  “ ever ”  last ? 
sweetly in force unto her fair life’s end . 	until her beautiful life’s end . 
but how long fairly shall her sweet life last ? 	but how long will her beautiful life last ? 
as long as heaven and nature lengthens it . 	as long as heaven and nature extend it . 
as long as hell and Richard likes of it . 	as long as hell and Richard want it . 
say I ,  her sovereign ,  am her subject low . 	tell her that I ,  her king ,  am her lowly subject . 
but she ,  your subject ,  loathes such sovereignty . 	but she ,  your subject ,  hates such a king . 
be eloquent in my behalf to her . 	be eloquent on my behalf . 
an honest tale speeds best being plainly told . 	an honest tale succeeds best when it is told simply . 
then plainly to her tell my loving tale . 	then tell her my loving story in simple terms . 
plain and not honest is too harsh a style . 	you can’t tell a story simply when it’s a lie . 
your reasons are too shallow and too quick . 	your answers are too shallow and too hasty . 
o no ,  my reasons are too deep and dead— Too deep and dead ,  poor infants ,  in their graves . 	oh no ,  my reasons are deep and as permanent as death . 
harp not on that string ,  madam; that is past . 	don’t harp on that point ,  madam—it’s past . 
harp on it still shall I till heart - strings break . 	I will harp on it till my heartstrings break . 
now by my George ,  my Garter ,  and my crown— Profaned ,  dishonored ,  and the third usurped . 	now ,  by St .  George ,  my knighthood ,  and my crown— The first you profaned ,  the second you dishonored ,  and the third you stole . 
I swear—      By nothing ,  for this is no oath . 	I swear— By nothing ,  because this is no oath . 
then ,  by myself—      Thyself is self - misused . 	st .  George loses his holiness once  Then ,  by myself— You’ve misused yourself . 
now ,  by the world—      'Tis full of thy foul wrongs . 	now ,  by the world— It’s full of your ugly wrongdoings . 
my father’s death—      Thy life hath it dishonored . 	by my father’s death— Your life has dishonored his death . 
If thou hadst feared to break an oath by Him ,  Th' imperial metal circling now thy head Had graced the tender temples of my child ,  And both the princes had been breathing here ,  Which now ,  two tender bedfellows for dust ,  Thy broken faith hath made the prey for worms . 	If you had been afraid to break an oath with him ,  the crown you are currently wearing would have graced the head of my child ,  and both princes would still be alive ,  not preyed on by worms . 
what canst thou swear by now ? 	what can you swear by now ? 
the time to come . 	by the future . 
the children live whose fathers thou hast slaughtered ,  Ungoverned youth ,  to wail it in their age; The parents live whose children thou hast butchered ,  Old barren plants ,  to wail it with their age . 	there are parents living whose children you have butchered; they are now old withered plants who will moan over their losses as they grow old . 
swear not by time to come ,  for that thou hast Misused ere used ,  by times ill - used o'erpast . 	don’t swear by the future ,  because you’ve ruined it before it has even arrived . 
as I intend to prosper and repent ,  So thrive I in my dangerous affairs Of hostile arms ! 	may I only do well in these dangerous battles if my intention to repent and prosper is sincere ! 
myself myself confound ,  Heaven and fortune bar me happy hours ,  Day ,  yield me not thy light ,  nor night thy rest ,  Be opposite all planets of good luck To my proceedings if ,  with dear heart’s love ,  Immaculate devotion ,  holy thoughts ,  I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter . 	let me destroy myself ,  let heaven and destiny deprive me of happy hours ,  let day remain dark and night sleepless ,  and let me have nothing but terrible luck if I do not love with a pure heart ,  clean devotion ,  and holy thoughts your beautiful royal daughter . 
In her consists my happiness and thine . 	my happiness and yours lie in her . 
urge the necessity and state of times ,  And be not peevish found in great designs . 	It
shall I be tempted of the devil thus ? 	shall I be tempted by the devil ? 
ay ,  if the devil tempt you to do good . 	yes ,  if the devil tempts you to do good . 
ay ,  if your self’s remembrance wrong yourself . 	yes ,  if your memories do you no good . 
yet thou didst kill my children . 	yet you killed my children . 
but in your daughter’s womb I bury them ,  Where ,  in that nest of spicery ,  they will breed Selves of themselves ,  to your recomforture . 	but in your daughter’s womb I will bury them . 
shall I go win my daughter to thy will ? 	should I go convince my daughter to marry you ? 
and be a happy mother by the deed . 	and be a happy mother by doing so . 
I go . 	I’m going . 
write to me very shortly ,  And you shall understand from me her mind . 	write to me very soon and I’ll let you know what she thinks . 
to our shores Throng many doubtful hollow - hearted friends ,  Unarmed and unresolved to beat them back . 	many former friends of ours have gathered to meet the fleet and aren’t willing to beat it back . 
tis thought that Richmond is their admiral; And there they hull ,  expecting but the aid Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore . 	word is that Richmond is the navy’s admiral . 
some light - foot friend post to the duke of Norfolk— Ratcliffe ,  thyself ,  or Catesby . 	someone who can ride fast ,  go to the duke of  Here ,  my good lord . 
catesby ,  fly to the duke . 	catesby ,  fly to the duke . 
I will ,  my lord ,  with all convenient haste . 	I will my lord ,  as fast as I can . 
ratcliffe ,  come hither . 	ratcliffe ,  come here . 
post to Salisbury . 	ride to Salisbury . 
o true ,  good Catesby . 	oh ,  right ,  good Catesby . 
bid him levy straight The greatest strength and power that he can make And meet me suddenly at Salisbury . 	tell him to gather together the greatest army he can muster in a hurry and meet me right away at Salisbury . 
I go . 	I’m off . 
what ,  may it please you ,  shall I do at Salisbury ? 	what would you like me to do at Salisbury ? 
why ,  what wouldst thou do there before I go ? 	why ,  what is there to do before I get there ? 
your Highness told me I should post before . 	your Highness just told me that I should ride there before you . 
my mind is changed . 	I changed my mind . 
stanley ,  what news with you ? 	stanley ,  what news do you have ? 
none good ,  my liege ,  to please you with the hearing ,  Nor none so bad but well may be reported . 	nothing that you want to hear ,  my lord ,  but nothing so bad that I can’t mention it . 
hoyday ,  a riddle ! 	well ,  how nice ,  a riddle ! 
neither good nor bad . 	neither good nor bad . 
what need’st thou run so many mile about When thou mayst tell thy tale the nearest way ? 	why do you go around in circles when you could get to the point ? 
once more ,  what news ? 	once again ,  what’s the news ? 
richmond is on the seas . 	richmond is sailing on the sea . 
there let him sink ,  and be the seas on him ! 	let him sink there so the sea will cover him ! 
white - livered runagate ,  what doth he there ? 	lily - livered coward ,  what’s he doing there ? 
well ,  as you guess ? 	well ,  what do you guess ? 
stirred up by Dorset ,  Buckingham ,  and Morton ,  He makes for England ,  here to claim the crown . 	that ,  stirred up by Dorset ,  Buckingham ,  and Morton ,  he’s coming to England to claim the crown . 
It is my day ,  my life . 	they are my daylight ,  my life . 
black night o'ershade thy day ,  and death thy life . 	then I hope night shadows your day ,  and death takes your life ! 
curse not thyself ,  fair creature; thou art both . 	don’t damn yourself . 
I would I were ,  to be revenged on thee . 	I wish I were ,  so I could deprive you of both day and life . 
his better doth not breathe upon the earth . 	there is no better one on earth . 
Is the chair empty ? 	Is the throne empty ? 
Is the sword unswayed ? 	Is the army without a leader ? 
Is the king dead ,  the empire unpossessed ? 	Is the king dead ,  the empire dispossessed ? 
what heir of York is there alive but we ? 	what heir of the York family is there alive other than myself ? 
and who is England’s king but great York’s heir ? 	and who is England’s king but an heir of the great York ? 
then tell me ,  what makes he upon the seas ? 	therefore ,  tell me ,  what is he doing at sea ? 
where is thy power ,  then ,  to beat him back ? 	where is your army ,  then ,  to beat him back ? 
where be thy tenants and thy followers ? 	where are your tenants and your followers ? 
are they not now upon the western shore ,  Safe - conducting the rebels from their ships ? 	aren’t they at this very moment on the western shore helping the rebels land safely from their ships ? 
cold friends to me . 	then they’re cold friends to me . 
what do they in the north When they should serve their sovereign in the west ? 	what are they doing in the north when they should be in the west serving their king ? 
they have not been commanded ,  mighty king . 	they haven’t been commanded to go to the west ,  mighty king . 
pleaseth your Majesty to give me leave ,  I’ll muster up my friends and meet your Grace Where and what time your Majesty shall please . 	If your Majesty would like ,  I’ll muster up my friends and meet you wherever and whenever you like . 
most mighty sovereign ,  You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful . 	most mighty sovereign ,  you have no reason to doubt my friendship . 
I never was nor never will be false . 	I was never disloyal ,  and I never will be . 
go then and muster men ,  but leave behind Your son George Stanley . 	then go gather your men ,  but leave behind your son ,  George Stanley . 
my gracious sovereign ,  now in Devonshire ,  As I by friends am well advertisèd ,  Sir Edward Courtney and the haughty prelate ,  Bishop of Exeter ,  his elder brother ,  With many more confederates are in arms . 	my noble king ,  my friends have informed me that Sir Edward Courtney and his brother ,  the haughty Bishop of Exeter ,  are now in  My king ,  the Guildfords in  My lord ,  the duke of Buckingham’s army— Enough ,  you
In Kent ,  my liege ,  the Guilfords are in arms ,  And every hour more competitors Flock to the rebels ,  and their power grows strong . 	the news I have to tell your majesty is that Buckingham’s army has dispersed from sudden floods and heavy rainfall . 
my lord ,  the army of great Buckingham— Out on you ,  owls ! 	buckingham himself has wandered away alone to who knows where . 
nothing but songs of death . 	I beg your pardon . 
but this good comfort bring I to your Highness: The Breton navy is dispersed by tempest . 	yes ,  your Highness . 
march on ,  march on ,  since we are up in arms ,  If not to fight with foreign enemies ,  Yet to beat down these rebels here at home . 	even if we don’t fight foreign enemies ,  we’ll beat down these rebels at home . 
while we reason here ,  A royal battle might be won and lost . 	while we’re talking here ,  a royal battle could be won and lost . 
someone take order Buckingham be brought To Salisbury . 	someone deliver the order that Buckingham be brought to Salisbury . 
the rest march on with me . 	everyone else ,  march on with me . 
but ,  tell me ,  where is princely Richmond now ? 	but ,  tell me ,  where is the noble Richmond now ? 
at Pembroke ,  or at Ha'rfordwest in Wales . 	at Pembroke ,  or at Harfordwest in Wales . 
sir Walter Herbert ,  a renownèd soldier; Sir Gilbert Talbot ,  Sir William Stanley ,  Oxford ,  redoubted Pembroke ,  Sir James Blunt ,  And Rice ap Thomas ,  with a valiant crew ,  And many other of great name and worth; And towards London they do bend their power ,  If by the way they be not fought withal . 	sir Walter Herbert ,  a renowned soldier; Sir Gilbert Talbot; Sir William Stanley; Oxford; the highly feared Pembroke; Sir James Blunt; Rice ap Thomas ,  with a valiant crew; and many other famous and powerful noblemen . 
now is the winter of our discontent Made glorious summer by this son of York ,  And all the clouds that loured upon our house In the deep bosom of the ocean buried . 	now we wear the wreaths of victory on our heads . 
grim - visaged war hath smoothed his wrinkled front; And now ,  instead of mounting barbèd steeds To fright the souls of fearful adversaries ,  He capers nimbly in a lady’s chamber To the lascivious pleasing of a lute . 	I’m left with nothing to do in this weak ,  idle peacetime ,  unless I want to look at my lumpy shadow in the sun and sing about
will not King Richard let me speak with him ? 	won’t King Richard let me speak with him ? 
no ,  my good lord . 	no ,  my good lord . 
therefore be patient . 	so be calm . 
hastings and Edward’s children ,  Grey and Rivers ,  Holy King Henry and thy fair son Edward ,  Vaughan ,  and all that have miscarrièd By underhand ,  corrupted ,  foul injustice ,  If that your moody ,  discontented souls Do through the clouds behold this present hour ,  Even for revenge mock my destruction . — This is All Souls' Day ,  fellow ,  is it not ? 	hastings and Edward’s children ,  Rivers and Grey ,  holy King Henry and your fine son Edward ,  Vaughan ,  and all who have died from underhanded ,  corrupt ,  fiendish injustice ,  if your angry souls are witnessing this moment through the clouds ,  enjoy the revenge—laugh at my ruin ! 
It is . 	this is  It is ,  my lord . 
why ,  then All Souls' Day is my body’s doomsday . 	why ,  then ,  it’s my body’s doomsday . 
this is the day which ,  in King Edward’s time ,  I wished might fall on me when I was found False to his children and his wife’s allies . 	today I’m going to get what I said I wished would happen to me if I was ever false to King Edward’s children or his wife’s allies . 
this is the day wherein I wished to fall By the false faith of him who most I trusted . 	this is the day I’m going to get what I wished for when I wished that the person I most trusted would betray me . 
this ,  this All Souls' Day to my fearful soul Is the determined respite of my wrongs . 	this ,  this All - Souls' day ,  is my just desserts . 
that high All - seer which I dallied with Hath turned my feignèd prayer on my head And given in earnest what I begged in jest . 	I tried to play games with God ,  and he turned my fake prayer on my head ,  giving me for real what I’d asked for as a joke . 
thus doth he force the swords of wicked men To turn their own points in their masters' bosoms . 	this is how God forces wicked men to turn their swords against themselves . 
wrong hath but wrong ,  and blame the due of blame . 	I have done wrong ,  so I will suffer wrong . 
I doubt not but his friends will turn to us . 	I suspect his friends will join us . 
he hath no friends but who are friends for fear . 	he has no friends except those who are too afraid to defy him . 
which in his dearest need will fly from him . 	In his greatest need ,  even they will desert him . 
all for our vantage . 	all to our advantage . 
then ,  in God’s name ,  march . 	so ,  in God’s name ,  let’s march . 
true hope is swift ,  and flies with swallow’s wings . 	hope with good cause is swift; it flies as fast as a swallow . 
kings it makes gods ,  and meaner creatures kings . 	It turns kings into gods and men of lower rank into kings . 
my heart is ten times lighter than my looks . 	my heart is ten times lighter than my looks . 
my Lord of Norfolk— Here ,  most gracious liege . 	my Lord of Norfolk— Here ,  most gracious king . 
norfolk ,  we must have knocks ,  ha ,  must we not ? 	norfolk ,  we’re going to have a few blows ,  right ? 
we must both give and take ,  my loving lord . 	we’ve got to give them and take them ,  my lord . 
up with my tent ! —Here will I lie tonight . 	I’ll lie here tonight . 
but where tomorrow ? 	but where will I lie tomorrow ? 
well ,  all’s one for that . 	well ,  it doesn’t matter . 
six or seven thousand is their utmost power . 	six or seven thousand ,  at most . 
why ,  our battalia trebles that account . 	why ,  our troops amount to three times that . 
besides ,  the king’s name is a tower of strength Which they upon the adverse party want . 	besides ,  the king’s name is a tower of strength; the opposition doesn’t have that advantage . 
let’s lack no discipline ,  make no delay ,  For ,  lords ,  tomorrow is a busy day . 	let’s be disciplined and not delay ,  because tomorrow is a busy day . 
my Lord of Oxford ,  you ,  Sir William Brandon ,  And you ,  Sir Walter Herbert ,  stay with me . 	my Lord of Oxford ,  you ,  Sir William Brandon ,  and you ,  Sir Walter Herbert ,  are going to stay with me . 
the earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment— Good Captain Blunt ,  bear my goodnight to him ,  And by the second hour in the morning Desire the earl to see me in my tent . 	good Captain Blunt ,  tell the earl goodnight from me ,  and tell him that by two in the morning I would like him to visit my tent . 
unless I have mista'en his colors much ,  Which well I am assured I have not done ,  His regiment lies half a mile ,  at least ,  South from the mighty power of the king . 	unless I’ve mistaken his battle flags ,  which I’m sure I haven’t ,  his regiment lies at least half a mile south of the king’s mighty army . 
If without peril it be possible ,  Sweet Blunt ,  make some good means to speak with him ,  And give him from me this most needful note . 	If it’s possible to do this without putting yourself in danger ,  dear Captain Blunt ,  say goodnight to him from me and give him this important note . 
upon my life ,  my lord ,  I’ll undertake it . 	upon my life ,  my lord ,  I’ll do it . 
he lives that loves thee better than he could . 	there is a man who loves you better than your husband could . 
name him . 	name him . 
plantagenet . 	plantagenet . 
why ,  that was he . 	yes ,  that’s my husband’s name . 
the selfsame name ,  but one of better nature . 	someone else has the same name ,  but he’s a better man . 
where is he ? 	where is this man ? 
here . 	here . 
why dost thou spit at me ? 	why do you spit at me ? 
would it were mortal poison for thy sake . 	If only I could spit poison . 
never came poison from so sweet a place . 	poison never came from such a sweet place . 
never hung poison on a fouler toad . 	poison never landed on such an ugly toad . 
out of my sight ! 	get out of my sight ! 
thou dost infect mine eyes . 	you’re poisoning my eyes . 
thine eyes ,  sweet lady ,  have infected mine . 	your beautiful eyes ,  sweet lady ,  have infected mine with love . 
would they were basilisks to strike thee dead . 	I wish my eyes were
good night ,  good Captain Blunt . 	good night ,  dear Captain Blunt . 
come ,  gentlemen ,  Let us consult upon tomorrow’s business Into my tent . 	come ,  gentlemen ,  let’s discuss tomorrow’s action in my tent . 
the dew is raw and cold . 	the night air is too raw and cold for us to stay outdoors . 
what is  “ t o ” clock ? 	what time is it ? 
It’s suppertime ,  my lord . 	It’s dinnertime ,  my lord . 
It’s nine o'clock . 	It’s nine o'clock . 
I will not sup tonight . 	I’m not going to eat dinner tonight . 
give me some ink and paper . 	give me some ink and paper . 
what ,  is my beaver easier than it was ? 	Is the visor of my helmet working better now ? 
and all my armor laid into my tent ? 	and has my armor been put in my tent ? 
good Norfolk ,  hie thee to thy charge . 	my good man Norfolk ,  hurry to your post . 
I go ,  my lord . 	I’m off ,  my lord . 
stir with the lark tomorrow ,  gentle Norfolk . 	get up early tomorrow—at the sound of the lark—noble Norfolk . 
I warrant you ,  my lord . 	I will ,  my lord . 
catesby . 	catesby . 
my lord . 	yes ,  my lord ? 
my lord . 	yes ,  my lord ? 
sawst thou the melancholy Lord Northumberland ? 	did you see the gloomy Lord Northumberland ? 
thomas the earl of Surrey and himself ,  Much about cockshut time ,  from troop to troop Went through the army cheering up the soldiers . 	thomas ,  the earl of Surrey ,  and he were moving from troop to troop around twilight cheering up the soldiers . 
so ,  I am satisfied . 	good ,  I’m satisfied . 
set it down . 	set it down . 
Is ink and paper ready ? 	Is my ink and paper ready ? 
It is ,  my lord . 	It is ,  my lord . 
ratcliffe ,  about the mid of night come to my tent And help to arm me . 	ratcliffe ,  around midnight come to my tent and help me put on my armor . 
leave me ,  I say . 	now leave me alone ,  as I said . 
fortune and victory sit on thy helm ! 	let fortune and victory be yours ! 
all comfort that the dark night can afford Be to thy person ,  noble father - in - law . 	I wish you all the comfort that such a dark night as this can offer ,  noble father - in - law . 
tell me ,  how fares our loving mother ? 	tell me ,  how is my mother ? 
I ,  by attorney ,  bless thee from thy mother ,  Who prays continually for Richmond’s good . 	your mother sends her blessings . 
In brief ,  for so the season bids us be ,  Prepare thy battle early in the morning ,  And put thy fortune to the arbitrament Of bloody strokes and mortal - staring war . 	to be brief—as the occasion requires—prepare to fight early in the morning ,  when your future will be decided . 
I ,  as I may—that which I would I cannot , — With best advantage will deceive the time ,  And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms . 	I can’t do everything I want to ,  but I’ll help you as well as I can . 
but on thy side I may not be too forward ,  Lest ,  being seen ,  thy brother ,  tender George ,  Be executed in his father’s sight . 	but I can’t be too obvious about being on your side without risking the life of your stepbrother ,  young George . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
the leisure and the fearful time Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love And ample interchange of sweet discourse ,  Which so - long - sundered friends should dwell upon . 	the lack of time and the risk I’m under will have to keep us from bonding and catching up on each other’s news the way we usually would after not seeing each other for so long . 
god give us leisure for these rites of love ! 	I hope we have the time some day ! 
once more ,  adieu . 	again ,  goodbye . 
be valiant ,  and speed well . 	be brave and do well ! 
once more ,  good night ,  kind lords and gentlemen . 	again ,  good night ,  kind lords and gentlemen . 
o Thou ,  whose captain I account myself ,  Look on my forces with a gracious eye . 	oh God ,  whose side I think I’m fighting on ,  look kindly on my forces . 
make us thy ministers of chastisement ,  That we may praise thee in the victory ! 	make us your agents of revenge ,  so we can praise you when we’re victorious ! 
to thee I do commend my watchful soul ,  Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes . 	before I fall asleep ,  I entrust my soul to you . 
sleeping and waking ,  O ,  defend me still ! 	defend me ,  God ,  both when I’m asleep and when I’m awake . 
think upon Vaughan ,  and with guilty fear Let fall thy lance . 	I’m sweating and trembling with fear . 
despair ,  and die ! 	myself ? 
edward’s unhappy sons do bid thee flourish . 	yes ,  I am . 
think on Lord Hastings . 	then run away . 
despair and die ! 	what ,  from myself ? 
thy adversary’s wife doth pray for thee . 	why ? 
the last was I that felt thy tyranny . 	did I do anything good to myself ? 
o ,  in the battle think on Buckingham ,  And die in terror of thy guiltiness . 	oh ,  no . 
dream on ,  dream on ,  of bloody deeds and death . 	I am a villain . 
but cheer thy heart ,  and be thou not dismayed . 	fool ,  do not flatter yourself . 
give me another horse ! 	give me another horse ! 
bind up my wounds ! 	bandage my wounds ! 
have mercy ,  Jesu ! —Soft ,  I did but dream . 	have mercy ,  Jesus ! —Wait ,  I was only dreaming . 
o coward conscience ,  how dost thou afflict me ! 	oh cowardly conscience ,  how you’re torturing me ! 
what do I fear ? 	but what am I afraid of ? 
myself ? 	myself ? 
there’s none else by . 	there’s no one else here . 
richard loves Richard; that is ,  I and I . 	richard loves Richard ,  that is ,  there’s just me and myself here . 
Is there a murderer here ? 	Is there a murderer here ? 
no . 	no . 
yes ,  I am . 	yes ,  I am . 
then fly ! 	then run away . 
what ,  from myself ? 	what ,  from myself ? 
alack ,  I love myself . 	unfortunately ,  I love myself . 
wherefore ? 	why ? 
for any good That I myself have done unto myself ? 	did I do anything good to myself ? 
o ,  no ! 	oh ,  no . 
alas ,  I rather hate myself For hateful deeds committed by myself . 	alas ,  I hate myself instead ,  because of the hateful deeds I’ve committed . 
I am a villain . 	I am a villain . 
fool ,  of thyself speak well . 	fool ,  speak well of yourself . 
fool ,  do not flatter . 	fool ,  do not flatter yourself . 
my lord . 	my lord . 
zounds ,  who is there ? 	damn it ,  who’s there ? 
ratcliffe ,  my lord ,  ’tis I . 	ratcliffe ,  my lord ,  it’s me . 
the early village cock Hath twice done salutation to the morn . 	the rooster has already crowed twice . 
your friends are up and buckle on their armor . 	your friends are up and buckling on their armor . 
o Ratcliffe ,  I have dreamed a fearful dream ! 	oh Ratcliffe ,  I had a terrifying dream ! 
what think’st thou ,  will our friends prove all true ? 	what do you think ,  will my friends prove loyal ? 
no doubt ,  my lord . 	no doubt ,  my lord . 
by the apostle Paul ,  shadows tonight Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers Armed in proof and led by shallow Richmond . 	by St .  Paul ,  ghosts have struck more terror in my soul tonight than ten thousand of worthless Richmond’s soldiers could ,  dressed up in their most sword - proof armor . 
tis not yet near day . 	It’s not yet daylight . 
come ,  go with me; Under our tents I’ll play the eavesdropper To see if any mean to shrink from me . 	come with me; I’ll spy under the tents to see if any of my own people plan to desert me . 
good morrow ,  Richmond . 	good morning ,  Richmond . 
cry mercy ,  lords and watchful gentlemen ,  That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here . 	pardon me ,  lords and gentlemen who stayed awake . 
how have you slept ,  my lord ? 	how did you sleep ,  my lord ? 
the sweetest sleep and fairest - boding dreams That ever entered in a drowsy head Have I since your departure had ,  my lords . 	since you left ,  I’ve been enjoying the sweetest sleep and most promising dreams I’ve ever had ,  my lords . 
methought their souls whose bodies Richard murdered Came to my tent and cried on victory . 	I dreamed the souls of the people Richard murdered came to my tent and promised me victory . 
I promise you ,  my soul is very jocund In the remembrance of so fair a dream . 	I tell you ,  I feel very jolly remembering such a beautiful dream . 
how far into the morning is it ,  lords ? 	how late is it ,  lords ? 
upon the stroke of four . 	It’s almost four . 
why ,  then ’tis time to arm and give direction . 	why ,  then ,  it’s time to put on my armor and instruct the troops . 
god and our good cause fight upon our side . 	we have God and a good cause on our side . 
the prayers of holy saints and wrongèd souls ,  Like high - reared bulwarks ,  stand before our faces . 	the prayers of saints and those that Richard wronged support us like high - walled fortresses . 
richard except ,  those whom we fight against Had rather have us win than him they follow . 	other than Richard ,  even those whom we fight against would rather we won . 
for what is he they follow ? 	because who is this man they follow ? 
If you do sweat to put a tyrant down ,  You sleep in peace ,  the tyrant being slain . 	If you struggle to bring down a tyrant ,  you will sleep peacefully when the tyrant is killed . 
If you do fight against your country’s foes ,  Your country’s fat shall pay your pains the hire . 	when you fight against your country’s enemies ,  you will be paid for your efforts with your country’s wealth . 
If you do fight in safeguard of your wives ,  Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors . 	If you fight to protect your wives ,  your wives will welcome you home as conquerors . 
If you do free your children from the sword ,  Your children’s children quits it in your age . 	when you free your children from the sword ,  your grandchildren will repay you in your old age . 
then ,  in the name of God and all these rights ,  Advance your standards . 	so ,  in the name of God and all the good that will come of this
I would they were ,  that I might die at once ,  For now they kill me with a living death . 	I wish they were ,  so that I could die right now ,  because ,  at this point ,  I live a living death . 
I never sued to friend ,  nor enemy; My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word . 	I never tried to win over a friend or enemy with sweet words . 
If thy revengeful heart cannot forgive ,  Lo ,  here I lend thee this sharp - pointed sword ,  Which if thou please to hide in this true breast And let the soul forth that adoreth thee ,  I lay it naked to the deadly stroke And humbly beg the death upon my knee . 	If your vengeful heart can’t forgive me ,  here—take my sword and bury it in my heart so that my soul ,  which adores you ,  can be free . 
nay ,  do not pause; for I did kill King Henry— But ’twas thy beauty that provokèd me . 	no ,  don’t pause ,  because I
what said Northumberland as touching Richmond ? 	what did Northumberland say about Richmond ? 
that he was never trainèd up in arms . 	that he was never trained as a soldier . 
he said the truth . 	that’s true . 
and what said Surrey then ? 	and what did Surrey say to that ? 
he smiled and said  “ The better for our purpose .  ”  He was in the right ,  and so indeed it is . 	he smiled and said ,   “ The better for us .  ”  He’s right ,  and that’s how it is . 
tell the clock there . 	read the time there . 
give me a calendar . 	give me an almanac . 
not I ,  my lord . 	I didn’t ,  my lord . 
ratcliffe ! 	ratcliffe ! 
my lord . 	my lord ? 
the sun will not be seen today . 	the sun will not appear today . 
the sky doth frown and lour upon our army . 	the sky frowns and scowls on our army . 
I would these dewy tears were from the ground . 	I wish there wasn’t so much dew on the ground . 
not shine today ? 	so ,  the sun won’t shine today ! 
arm ,  arm ,  my lord . 	get ready ,  my lord . 
the foe vaunts in the field . 	the enemy is making its appearance on the battlefield . 
come ,  bustle ,  bustle . 	hurry ,  hurry—prepare my horse . 
john Duke of Norfolk ,  Thomas Earl of Surrey ,  Shall have the leading of this foot and horse . 	john Duke of Norfolk and Thomas Earl of Surrey will lead the horsemen and foot soldiers . 
they thus directed ,  we will follow In the main battle ,  whose puissance on either side Shall be well wingèd with our chiefest horse . 	I’ll follow in the center of the troop formation ,  which I’ll defend with my best horse ,  and with Saint George on my side ,  as well ! 
this ,  and Saint George to boot—What think’st thou ,  Norfolk ? 	what do you think ,  Norfolk ? 
a good direction ,  warlike sovereign . 	a good plan ,  warrior king . 
this found I on my tent this morning . 	I found this pinned to my tent this morning . 
hark ! 	listen ! 
I hear their drum . 	I hear their drums . 
amaze the welkin with your broken staves—	startle even the sky with the sound of your lances cracking . 
what says Lord Stanley ? 	what does Lord Stanley say ? 
will he bring his power ? 	will he bring his army ? 
my lord ,  he doth deny to come . 	my lord ,  he refuses to come . 
off with his son George’s head ! 	off with his son George’s head ! 
my lord ,  the enemy is past the marsh . 	my lord ,  the enemy has already passed the marsh . 
after the battle let George Stanley die . 	let George Stanley die after the battle . 
upon them ! 	let’s go ! 
victory sits on our helms . 	victory is with us . 
rescue ,  my lord of Norfolk ,  rescue ,  rescue ! 	help ,  my lord of Norfolk ,  help ,  help ! 
the king enacts more wonders than a man ,  Daring an opposite to every danger . 	the king performs more wonders than seem humanly possible ,  challenging every enemy he sees . 
his horse is slain ,  and all on foot he fights ,  Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death . 	his horse is killed ,  so he’s fighting on foot ,  risking his life to search out Richmond . 
rescue ,  fair lord ,  or else the day is lost ! 	help ,  dear lord ,  or the battle will be lost ! 
a horse ,  a horse ,  my kingdom for a horse ! 	a horse ,  a horse ,  I’d give my kingdom for a horse ! 
withdraw ,  my lord . 	get off the field ,  my lord . 
I’ll help you to a horse . 	I’ll find you another horse . 
god and your arms be praised ,  victorious friends ! 	god and your work be praised ,  victorious friends . 
great God of heaven ,  say amen to all ! 	great God of heaven ,  say amen to all this ! 
but tell me ,  is young George Stanley living ? 	but ,  tell me ,  is young George Stanley alive ? 
he is ,  my lord ,  and safe in Leicester town ,  Whither ,  if it please you ,  we may now withdraw us . 	he is ,  my lord ,  and safe in Leicester ,  where ,  if you’d like ,  we can retreat to . 
john Duke of Norfolk ,  Walter ,  Lord Ferrers ,  Sir Robert Brakenbury ,  and Sir William Brandon . 	john Duke of Norfolk ,  Walter Lord Ferrers ,  Sir Robert Brakenbury ,  and Sir William Brandon . 
and then ,  as we have ta'en the sacrament ,  We will unite the white rose and the red . 	as I vowed ,  I will unite the York and Lancaster families . 
smile heaven upon this fair conjunction ,  That long have frowned upon their enmity . 	smile ,  then ,  on this beautiful union . 
what traitor hears me and says not  “ Amen ?  ”  England hath long been mad and scarred herself . 	what traitor hears me and doesn’t say amen ? 
o ,  now let Richmond and Elizabeth ,  The true succeeders of each royal house ,  By God’s fair ordinance conjoin together ,  And let their heirs ,  God ,  if thy will be so . 	now let Richmond and Elizabeth ,  the true heirs of each royal house ,  be joined together ! 
abate the edge of traitors ,  gracious Lord ,  That would reduce these bloody days again ,  And make poor England weep in streams of blood ! 	gracious Lord ,  blunt the swords of those traitors who mean to tear poor England apart again ! 
let them not live to taste this land’s increase ,  That would with treason wound this fair land’s peace . 	let those who would mar this fair land’s peace with treason die before they can enjoy its wealth . 
now civil wounds are stopped ,  peace lives again . 	civil wounds now can heal ,  and peace can live again . 
that she may long live here ,  God say amen . 	so that England may live a long life like this ,  let God say amen ! 
take up the sword again ,  or take up me . 	take up the sword again ,  or take me up . 
arise ,  dissembler . 	get up ,  liar . 
though I wish thy death ,  I will not be the executioner . 	though I wish you were dead ,  I’m not going to be the one to kill you . 
I have already . 	I have already . 
that was in thy rage . 	you said it when you were furious . 
speak it again and ,  even with the word ,  This hand ,  which for thy love did kill thy love ,  Shall for thy love kill a far truer love . 	say it again—just one word ,  and my hand ,  which killed your lover out of love ,  will kill your far truer lover . 
to both their deaths shalt thou be accessory . 	you will be an accessory to both crimes . 
I would I knew thy heart . 	I wish I knew what was in your heart . 
tis figured in my tongue . 	I’ve told you . 
I fear me both are false . 	I fear that your words and your heart are both false . 
then never man was man true . 	then no man has ever been honest . 
well ,  well ,  put up your sword . 	well ,  then ,  put your sword away . 
say then my peace is made . 	tell me that you’ll accept my love . 
that shall you know hereafter . 	you’ll know about that later . 
but shall I live in hope ? 	but can I have some hope ? 
all men I hope live so . 	I’d like to think all men have some hope . 
vouchsafe to wear this ring . 	please wear this ring . 
wear both of them ,  for both of them are thine . 	wear both the ring and my heart ,  because both are yours . 
and if thy poor devoted servant may But beg one favor at thy gracious hand ,  Thou dost confirm his happiness forever . 	and if I ,  your poor devoted servant ,  may ask you for one small favor ,  you will guarantee my happiness forever . 
what is it ? 	what’s that ? 
that it would please you leave these sad designs To him that hath more cause to be a mourner ,  And presently repair to Crosby House ,  Where ,  after I have solemnly interred At Chertsey monast'ry this noble king And wet his grave with my repentant tears ,  I will with all expedient duty see you . 	please leave it to me to take care of the burial ,  as I have more reason to mourn than you do . 
for divers unknown reasons ,  I beseech you ,  Grant me this boon . 	for various reasons that must remain secret ,  please do this for me . 
with all my heart ,  and much it joys me too To see you are become so penitent . — Tressel and Berkeley ,  go along with me . 	I’ll do it with all my heart . 
bid me farewell . 	say goodbye to me . 
sirs ,  take up the corse . 	sirs ,  take up the corpse . 
towards Chertsey ,  noble lord ? 	toward Chertsey ,  noble lord ? 
no ,  to Whitefriars . 	no ,  to the Whitefriars monastery . 
there attend my coming . 	wait for me there . 
was ever woman in this humor wooed ? 	has anyone ever courted a woman in this state of mind ? 
was ever woman in this humor won ? 	and has anyone ever won her ,  as I’ve done ? 
I’ll have her ,  but I will not keep her long . 	I’ll get her ,  but I won’t keep her long . 
and yet to win her ,  all the world to nothing ! 	and yet ,  against all odds ,  I win her over ! 
ha ! 	ha ! 
hath she forgot already that brave prince ,  Edward ,  her lord ,  whom I some three months since Stabbed in my angry mood at Tewkesbury ? 	has she already forgotten her brave husband ,  Prince Edward ,  whom I stabbed on the battlefield three months ago in my anger ? 
a sweeter and a Lovellier gentleman ,  Framed in the prodigality of nature ,  Young ,  valiant ,  wise ,  and ,  no doubt ,  right royal ,  The spacious world cannot again afford . 	he was graced with lots of natural gifts ,  he was young ,  valiant ,  wise ,  and no doubt meant to be king . 
and will she yet abase her eyes on me ,  That cropped the golden prime of this sweet prince And made her widow to a woeful bed ? 	and yet she cheapens herself by turning her gaze on me ,  who cut her sweet prince’s life short and made her a widow ? 
on me ,  whose all not equals Edward’s moiety ? 	on me ,  though I am barely half the man that Edward was ? 
on me ,  that halts and am misshapen thus ? 	on me ,  though I am limping and deformed ? 
my dukedom to a beggarly denier ,  I do mistake my person all this while ! 	I bet I’ve been wrong about myself all this time . 
upon my life ,  she finds ,  although I cannot ,  Myself to be a marv'lous proper man . 	even though I don’t see it ,  this lady thinks I’m a marvelously good - looking man . 
I’ll be at charges for a looking glass And entertain a score or two of tailors To study fashions to adorn my body . 	time to buy myself a mirror and employ a few dozen tailors to dress me up in the current fashions . 
since I am crept in favor with myself ,  I will maintain it with some little cost . 	since I’m suddenly all the rage ,  it will be worth the cost . 
but first I’ll turn yon fellow in his grave And then return lamenting to my love . 	but first ,  I’ll dump this fellow in his grave ,  then return to my love weeping with grief . 
shine out ,  fair sun ,  till I have bought a glass ,  That I may see my shadow as I pass . 	come out ,  beautiful sun—until I’ve bought a mirror to admire my reflection in ,  I’ll watch my shadow as I stroll along . 
have patience ,  madam . 	be patient ,  madam . 
there’s no doubt his majesty Will soon recover his accustomed health . 	I’m sure his majesty will recover his health soon . 
If he were dead ,  what would betide on me ? 	then you’ll be able to cheer  If he were dead ,  what would happen to me ? 
ah ,  he is young ,  and his minority Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester ,  A man that loves not me nor none of you . 	but he’s young ,  and as long as he’s too young to become king ,  Richard ,  the duke of Gloucester ,  has power over him . 
Is it concluded that he shall be Protector ? 	richard loves neither me nor any of you . 
It is determined ,  not concluded yet; But so it must be if the king miscarry . 	has it been decided that Richard will be  It’s been decided ,  though not yet officially announced . 
god make your Majesty joyful ,  as you have been . 	I hope God makes you happy again ,  like you once were . 
saw you the king today ,  my lord of Derby ? 	did you see the king today ,  Lord Derby ? 
but now the duke of Buckingham and I Are come from visiting his majesty . 	yes ,  the duke of Buckingham and I have just returned from visiting him . 
what likelihood of his amendment ,  lords ? 	what are the chances of his getting better ,  lords ? 
madam ,  good hope . 	madam ,  keep up hope . 
his grace speaks cheerfully . 	he seems cheerful . 
god grant him health . 	god give him health . 
did you confer with him ? 	did you talk with him ? 
ay ,  madam . 	yes ,  madam . 
would all were well—but that will never be . 	I wish I could believe you that all was well ! 
they do me wrong ,  and I will not endure it ! 	they’re out to get me ,  and I won’t stand for it ! 
who is it that complains unto the king That I ,  forsooth ,  am stern and love them not ? 	which of you has been complaining to the king that I don’t like them ? 
cannot a plain man live and think no harm ,  But thus his simple truth must be abused With silken ,  sly ,  insinuating jacks ? 	can’t a plain man live and do no harm to anyone without being taken advantage of by a bunch of slick ,  sneaky lowlifes ? 
to whom in all this presence speaks your Grace ? 	which of us are you referring to ? 
to thee ,  that hast nor honesty nor grace . 	you ,  who are neither honest nor good . 
when have I injured thee ? 	when did I ever do you any harm ? 
or any of your faction ? 	or any of you ? 
a plague upon you all ! 	damn you all ! 
his royal grace ,  Whom God preserve better than you would wish ,  Cannot be quiet scarce a breathing while But you must trouble him with lewd complaints . 	the king—whom I hope God will protect better than you would like—can’t get a minute’s rest without you bothering him with your outrageous complaints . 
brother of Gloucester ,  you mistake the matter . 	brother ,  you’ve made a mistake . 
I cannot tell . 	he  I can’t tell what’s going on . 
the world is grown so bad That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch . 	the world has become so bad that now little wrens have settled where eagles used to roost . 
come ,  come ,  we know your meaning ,  brother Gloucester . 	come ,  come ,  I know what you’re referring to ,  Richard . 
you envy my advancement ,  and my friends' . 	you resent my friends' rise in society ,  and my own . 
god grant we never may have need of you . 	let’s hope we never need your help for anything . 
meantime God grants that we have need of you . 	meanwhile ,  we’re the ones who need you . 
our brother is imprisoned by your means ,  Myself disgraced ,  and the nobility Held in contempt ,  while great promotions Are daily given to ennoble those That scarce some two days since were worth a noble . 	my brother is imprisoned because of you ,  I am disgraced ,  and the nobility are held in contempt while those who two days ago weren’t worth a dime have suddenly been promoted . 
by Him that raised me to this careful height From that contented hap which I enjoyed ,  I never did incense his majesty Against the duke of Clarence ,  but have been An earnest advocate to plead for him . 	by the Lord who raised me to this weighty post from the happy and carefree life I used to enjoy ,  I promise you I never did anything to get the king to turn against the duke of Clarence . 
and therefore ,  since I cannot prove a lover To entertain these fair well - spoken days ,  I am determinèd to prove a villain And hate the idle pleasures of these days . 	since I can’t amuse myself by being a lover ,  I’ve decided to become a villain . 
plots have I laid ,  inductions dangerous ,  By drunken prophecies ,  libels and dreams ,  To set my brother Clarence and the king In deadly hate ,  the one against the other; And if King Edward be as true and just As I am subtle ,  false ,  and treacherous ,  This day should Clarence closely be mewed up About a prophecy which says that  “ G ”  Of Edward’s heirs the murderer shall be . 	I’ve set dangerous plans in motion ,  using lies ,  drunken prophecies ,  and stories about dreams to set my brother Clarence and the king against each other . 
his majesty ,  Tend'ring my person’s safety ,  hath appointed This conduct to convey me to the Tower . 	his majesty is so concerned about my personal safety that he has ordered them to conduct me to the  You’re being arrested ? 
upon what cause ? 	why ? 
because my name is George . 	because my name is George . 
alack ,  my lord ,  that fault is none of yours . 	that’s not your fault ! 
he should ,  for that ,  commit your godfathers . 	he should imprison the person who named you ,  instead . 
o ,  belike his majesty hath some intent That you shall be new christened in the Tower . 	maybe the king is sending you to the Tower to have you renamed . 
but what’s the matter ,  Clarence ? 	but ,  really ,  what’s going on ,  Clarence ? 
may I know ? 	can you tell me ? 
what may she not ? 	she could even what ? 
I wis ,  your grandam had a worser match . 	certainly ,  your grandmother had a worse match . 
my Lord of Gloucester ,  I have too long borne Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs . 	my lord of Gloucester ,  I have suffered your blunt upbraidings and your bitterness toward me for too long . 
by heaven ,  I will acquaint his majesty With those gross taunts that oft I have endured . 	by God ,  I will tell the king about these taunts . 
I had rather be a country servant - maid Than a great queen with this condition ,  To be so baited ,  scorned ,  and stormèd at . 	I would rather be a country serving maid than a great queen if it meant I could escape your scorn and constant harassment . 
small joy have I in being England’s queen . 	I’ve had very little joy as England’s queen . 
so should we you ,  if you should be our king . 	If you were king ,  we would do the same . 
If I should be ? 	If I were king ? 
I had rather be a peddler . 	I’d rather be a peddler . 
hear me ,  you wrangling pirates ,  that fall out In sharing that which you have pilled from me ! 	hear me ,  you wrangling pirates . 
which of you trembles not that looks on me ? 	which of you does not tremble when you see me ? 
foul ,  wrinkled witch ,  what mak’st thou in my sight ? 	ugly ,  wrinkled witch ,  what are you doing here ? 
but repetition of what thou hast marred . 	only describing what you have ruined . 
that will I make before I let thee go . 	or at least that’s what I plan to do before I let you go . 
wert thou not banishèd on pain of death ? 	weren’t you banished on pain of death ? 
I was ,  but I do find more pain in banishment Than death can yield me here by my abode . 	I was . 
the sorrow that I have by right is yours ,  And all the pleasures you usurp are mine . 	the sorrow that I feel actually belongs to you ,  and the high life you enjoy actually belongs to me . 
o ,  ’twas the foulest deed to slay that babe ,  And the most merciless that e'er was heard of ! 	oh ,  killing that child was the dirtiest ,  most merciless deed there ever was ! 
tyrants themselves wept when it was reported . 	tyrants themselves wept when they heard about it . 
what ,  were you snarling all before I came ,  Ready to catch each other by the throat ,  And turn you all your hatred now on me ? 	even  What ,  were you all snarling before I arrived ,  ready to catch each other by the throat like dogs ,  but now that I’m here ,  you turn your hatred toward me ? 
thyself a queen ,  for me that was a queen ,  Outlive thy glory ,  like my wretched self . 	all because of what happened to that brat Rutland ? 
have done thy charm ,  thou hateful ,  withered hag . 	enough of your magic spells ,  you hateful ,  withered hag . 
and leave out thee ? 	and leave you out ? 
stay ,  dog ,  for thou shalt hear me . 	don’t move ,  dog . 
the worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul . 	It’s your turn now . 
richard ! 	richard . 
ha ? 	yes ? 
I call thee not . 	I didn’t call you . 
I cry thee mercy ,  then ,  for I did think That thou hadst called me all these bitter names . 	I beg your pardon—I thought it was me whom you were calling all those terrible names . 
why ,  so I did ,  but looked for no reply . 	yes ,  I was ,  but I don’t want an answer from you . 
o ,  let me make the period to my curse ! 	let me finish my curse . 
tis done by me ,  and ends in  “ Margaret .  ”    Thus have you breathed your curse against yourself . 	I’ve finished it for you ,  and it ends in  “ Margaret .  ”  He’s turned your curse against you ,  Margaret . 
poor painted queen ,  vain flourish of my fortune ,  Why strew’st thou sugar on that bottled spider ,  Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about ? 	poor imitation queen ,  why do you align yourself with this humpbacked spider when he’s got you trapped in his deadly web ? 
the day will come that thou shalt wish for me To help thee curse that poisonous bunch - backed toad . 	the day will come when you’ll wish I could help you cast spells against this poisonous ,  hunchbacked toad . 
false - boding woman ,  end thy frantic curse ,  Lest to thy harm thou move our patience . 	woman ,  stop your frantic curses and false prophesies before we run out of patience and do something bad to you . 
foul shame upon you ,  you have all moved mine . 	shame on you; I’ve already run out of patience with you all . 
were you well served ,  you would be taught your duty . 	If you got what you deserved ,  you would learn some respect . 
to serve me well ,  you all should do me duty: Teach me to be your queen ,  and you my subjects . 	what I deserve is that you treat me like a queen ,  and what you deserve is to act like my subjects . 
o ,  serve me well ,  and teach yourselves that duty ! 	give me what I deserve ,  and do your duty ! 
they that stand high have many blasts to shake them ,  And if they fall ,  they dash themselves to pieces . 	people in high positions are shaken by many blasts of wind ,  and when they fall ,  they shatter into pieces . 
good counsel ,  marry . 	good advice ,  indeed . 
learn it ,  learn it ,  marquess . 	take it to heart ,  Dorset . 
It touches you ,  my lord ,  as much as me . 	It applies to you as much as to me ,  my lord . 
and turns the sun to shade . 	but you turn that sun into a shadow . 
urge neither charity nor shame to me . 	you are building your nest in
uncharitably with me have you dealt ,  And shamefully my hopes by you are butchered . 	stop—if you can’t be kind ,  at least have some shame . 
my charity is outrage ,  life my shame ,  And in that shame still live my sorrows' rage . 	how dare you talk about kindness or shame . 
have done ,  have done . 	enough ,  enough . 
thy garments are not spotted with our blood ,  Nor thou within the compass of my curse . 	your clothes aren’t spattered with my family’s blood ,  and you aren’t affected by my curse . 
nor no one here ,  for curses never pass The lips of those that breathe them in the air . 	no one here is affected by your curse ,  because curses are just words with no power . 
what doth she say ,  my lord of Buckingham ? 	what is she saying ,  my lord ? 
nothing that I respect ,  my gracious lord . 	nothing that interests me ,  my good lord . 
what ,  dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel ,  And soothe the devil that I warn thee from ? 	what ,  you ignore my kind advice and try to please the devil I’m warning you about ? 
my hair doth stand an end to hear her curses . 	her curses have made my hair stand on end . 
and so doth mine . 	mine ,  too . 
I muse why she’s at liberty . 	I don’t understand why she’s not locked up . 
I cannot blame her . 	I can’t blame her . 
I never did her any ,  to my knowledge . 	I never caused her any harm ,  as far as I know . 
yet you have all the vantage of her wrong . 	but you have all the advantages from the harm done . 
marry ,  as for Clarence ,  he is well repaid; He is franked up to fatting for his pains . 	and look how he’s repaid poor Clarence for his loyalty—penned him up like a pig being fattened for slaughter . 
god pardon them that are the cause thereof . 	god pardon those who are responsible for Clarence’s troubles . 
so do I ever  For had I cursed now ,  I had cursed myself . 	I always pray for them
yea ,  Richard ,  when I know ,  for I protest As yet I do not . 	I’ll tell you as soon as I know ,  Richard ,  because at this point I have no idea . 
but ,  as I can learn ,  He hearkens after prophecies and dreams ,  And from the crossrow plucks the letter  And says a wizard told him that by  “ G ”  His issue disinherited should be . 	he picked out the letter  “ G ”  from the alphabet and said a wizard told him that  “ G ”  will take the throne away from his children . 
and for my name of George begins with  It follows in his thought that I am he . 	he thinks  “ G ”  is me . 
why ,  this it is when men are ruled by women . 	well ,  this is what happens when men let themselves be ruled by women . 
tis not the king that sends you to the Tower . 	the king isn’t the one sending you to the Tower ,  Clarence . 
my Lady Grey his wife ,  Clarence ,  ’tis she That tempers him to this extremity . 	It’s his wife ,  Lady Grey ,  who got him to do this . 
madam ,  his majesty doth call for you , — And for your Grace ,  —and yours ,  my gracious lords . 	madam ,  his majesty asks for you ,  and for you ,  Duke of Gloucester ,  and for you ,  my noble lords . 
we wait upon your Grace . 	we will wait on you ,  your majesty . 
I do the wrong ,  and first begin to brawl . 	I do the wrong and am the first to start quarrels . 
now they believe it and withal whet me To be revenged on Rivers ,  Dorset ,  Grey; But then I sigh and ,  with a piece of scripture ,  Tell them that God bids us do good for evil; And thus I clothe my naked villainy With odd old ends stolen out of Holy Writ ,  And seem a saint when most I play the devil . 	dressing my out - and - out wickedness in scraps of Scripture ,  I look like a saint exactly when I’m most like the devil . 
but ,  soft ! 	but quiet . 
are you now going to dispatch this thing ? 	are you going to take care of this thing now ? 
we are ,  my lord ,  and come to have the warrant That we may be admitted where he is . 	we are ,  my lord . 
well thought upon . 	good thinking . 
I have it here about me . 	I have it on me here . 
tut ,  tut ,  my lord ,  we will not stand to prate . 	tut ,  tut ,  my lord ,  we’re not going to stand around chit - chatting . 
talkers are no good doers . 	talkers aren’t good doers . 
be assured We go to use our hands and not our tongues . 	rest assured that we’re going there to use our hands ,  not our tongues . 
your eyes drop millstones ,  when fools' eyes drop tears . 	when fools cry ,  you remain stony . 
I like you lads . 	I like you guys . 
go ,  go ,  dispatch . 	hurry now ,  get the job done . 
we will ,  my noble lord . 	we will ,  my noble lord . 
why looks your grace so heavily today ? 	why do you look so depressed today ,  your Grace ? 
what was your dream ,  my lord ? 	what was your dream ? 
I pray you tell me . 	tell me . 
methoughts that I had broken from the Tower And was embarked to cross to Burgundy ,  And in my company my brother Gloucester ,  Who from my cabin tempted me to walk Upon the hatches . 	I thought I had escaped from the Tower and was on a ship to France with my brother Richard ,  who persuaded me to leave my cabin and walk on deck with him . 
thence we looked toward England And cited up a thousand fearful times ,  During the wars of York and Lancaster That had befall'n us . 	looking toward England ,  we reminisced about the countless frightening experiences we’d had in the wars between the Yorks and the Lancasters . 
o Lord ,  methought what pain it was to drown ,  What dreadful noise of waters in my ears ,  What sights of ugly death within my eyes . 	lord ,  how painful it was to drown . 
methoughts I saw a thousand fearful wracks ,  A thousand men that fishes gnawed upon ,  Wedges of gold ,  great anchors ,  heaps of pearl ,  Inestimable stones ,  unvalued jewels ,  All scattered in the bottom of the sea . 	I saw a thousand shipwrecks ,  a thousand men whom fish had gnawed to the bone ,  huge anchors ,  chunks of gold ,  heaps of pearls ,  and precious jewels—all scattered on the bottom of the sea . 
had you such leisure in the time of death To gaze upon the secrets of the deep ? 	so you had time as you were dying to look around ? 
methought I had ,  and often did I strive To yield the ghost ,  but still the envious flood Stopped in my soul and would not let it forth To find the empty ,  vast ,  and wand'ring air ,  But smothered it within my panting bulk ,  Who almost burst to belch it in the sea . 	It wouldn’t let my soul find its way to air but smothered it inside my gasping body . 
I passed ,  methought ,  the melancholy flood ,  With that sour ferryman which poets write of ,  Unto the kingdom of perpetual night . 	In fact ,  the real nightmare had only just begun . 
the first that there did greet my stranger - soul Was my great father - in - law ,  renownèd Warwick ,  Who spake aloud ,   “ What scourge for perjury Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence ?  ”  And so he vanished . 	with the help of the grim  The first to greet me there was my great
no marvel ,  lord ,  though it affrighted you . 	clarence has arrived—lying ,  cowardly  I’m not surprised it scared you ,  my lord . 
I am afraid ,  methinks ,  to hear you tell it . 	It scares me just to hear you talk about it . 
ah keeper ,  keeper ,  I have done those things ,  That now give evidence against my soul ,  For Edward’s sake ,  and see how he requites me . — O God ,  if my deep prayers cannot appease thee ,  But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds ,  Yet execute thy wrath in me alone ! 	I did them for Edward’s sake—and look how he rewards me . —Oh God ,  if my prayers don’t satisfy you ,  and you have to avenge the wrongs I’ve done ,  at least punish me alone ! 
o ,  spare my guiltless wife and my poor children ! — Keeper ,  I prithee sit by me awhile . 	please spare my innocent wife and children ! —Kind warden ,  please stay with me for a while . 
my soul is heavy ,  and I fain would sleep . 	I’m feeling very low ,  and I need to sleep . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I’ll stay ,  my lord . 
god give your Grace good rest . 	may God bring you sleep ! 
sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours ,  Makes the night morning ,  and the noontide night . 	sorrow interrupts all hours and seasons . 
princes have but their titles for their glories ,  An outward honor for an inward toil , 	the only glory princes have are their titles . 
what wouldst thou ,  fellow ? 	what do you want ,  fellow ? 
and how cam’st thou hither ? 	and how did you get in here ? 
I would speak with Clarence ,  and I came hither on my legs . 	I want to speak with Clarence ,  and I came here on my legs . 
what ,  so brief ? 	that’s it ? 
tis better ,  sir ,  to be brief than tedious . —Let him see our commission ,  and talk no more . 	well ,  sir ,  it’s better to say little than to be tedious . 
I am in this commanded to deliver The noble duke of Clarence to your hands . 	It orders me to hand the noble duke of Clarence over to you . 
there lies the duke asleep ,  and there the keys . 	here are the keys ,  and there is the duke ,  sleeping . 
you may ,  sir . 	you may ,  sir . 
tis a point of wisdom . 	that’s a wise idea . 
fare you well . 	goodbye . 
what ,  shall I stab him as he sleeps ? 	what ,  should I stab him while he sleeps ? 
no . 	no . 
he’ll say ’twas done cowardly ,  when he wakes . 	when he wakes up ! 
why ,  he shall never wake until the great Judgment Day . 	why ,  he won’t wake up till Judgment Day . 
why ,  then he’ll say we stabbed him sleeping . 	okay ,  so that’s when he’ll say we stabbed him in his sleep . 
the urging of that word  “ judgment ”  hath bred a kind of remorse in me . 	that word  “ judgment ”  makes me feel a bit guilty . 
what ,  art thou afraid ? 	what ,  are you afraid ? 
not to kill him ,  having a warrant ,  but to be damned for killing him ,  from the which no warrant can defend me . 	not of killing him ,  because I have a warrant for it ,  but of being damned for killing him ,  which no warrant can protect me from . 
I thought thou hadst been resolute . 	I thought you were resolved to do this . 
so I am—to let him live . 	I am resolved—to let him live . 
I’ll back to the duke of Gloucester and tell him so . 	I’ll go back to the duke of Gloucester and tell him so . 
nay ,  I prithee stay a little . 	please ,  just wait a minute . 
I hope this passionate humor of mine will change . 	I’m hoping my holy mood will pass . 
It was wont to hold me but while one tells twenty . 	It usually only lasts about twenty seconds . 
how dost thou feel thyself now ? 	how are you feeling now ? 
faith ,  some certain dregs of conscience are yet within me . 	actually ,  I’m still feeling some pangs of conscience . 
remember our reward when the deed’s done . 	remember the reward we’re getting when the deed’s done . 
zounds ,  he dies ! 	jesus ,  let’s kill him ! 
I had forgot the reward . 	I forgot about the reward . 
where’s thy conscience now ? 	where’s your conscience now ? 
o ,  in the duke of Gloucester’s purse . 	oh ,  in the duke of Gloucester’s wallet . 
so when he opens his purse to give us our reward ,  thy conscience flies out . 	when he opens his wallet to give us our pay ,  your conscience will fly out ? 
tis no matter . 	It won’t matter . 
let it go . 	let it fly out . 
there’s few or none will entertain it . 	no one will listen to it . 
what if it come to thee again ? 	and what will you do if it returns to you ? 
I’ll not meddle with it . 	I won’t bother with it . 
tis a blushing ,  shamefaced spirit that mutinies in a man’s bosom . 	It blushes ,  is easily embarrassed ,  and stages regular uprisings in a man’s heart . 
I am strong - framed . 	I’m strong - willed . 
he cannot prevail with me . 	he won’t get the better of me . 
spoke like a tall man that respects thy reputation . 	spoken like a brave man who respects his reputation . 
come ,  shall we fall to work ? 	shall we get to work ? 
take him on the costard with the hilts of thy sword ,  and then throw him into the malmsey butt in the next room . 	we’ll hit him on the head with the handles of our swords ,  then throw him in the wine barrel in the next room . 
o excellent device— and make a sop of him . 	what an excellent idea—he’ll soak up the wine ! 
strike ! 	strike ! 
no ,  we’ll reason with him . 	no ,  first let’s talk to him . 
where art thou ,  keeper ? 	where are you ,  keeper ? 
give me a cup of wine . 	give me a cup of wine . 
you shall have wine enough ,  my lord ,  anon . 	you’ll have wine enough ,  my lord ,  soon . 
In God’s name ,  what art thou ? 	In God’s name ,  who are you ? 
a man ,  as you are . 	a man ,  like you . 
but not ,  as I am ,  royal . 	but not a member of the royal family ,  like me . 
nor you ,  as we are ,  loyal . 	and you’re not loyal ,  like us . 
thy voice is thunder ,  but thy looks are humble . 	your voice is loud and commanding ,  but you look like a working man . 
my voice is now the king’s ,  my looks mine own . 	I’m speaking for the king ,  but I look like myself . 
your eyes do menace me . 	your eyes look threatening . 
why look you pale ? 	and why are you so pale ? 
who sent you hither ? 	who sent you here ? 
wherefore do you come ? 	why are you here ? 
to ,  to ,  to— To murder me ? 	to ,  to ,  to— To murder me ? 
ay ,  ay . 	yes . 
you scarcely have the hearts to tell me so ,  And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it . 	you barely have the heart to tell me ,  so you can’t possibly have the nerve to do it . 
wherein ,  my friends ,  have I offended you ? 	besides ,  how have I offended you ,  my friends ? 
offended us you have not ,  but the king . 	you didn’t offend us ,  you offended the king . 
I shall be reconciled to him again . 	he and I will make up . 
never ,  my lord . 	never ,  my lord . 
therefore prepare to die . 	so prepare to die . 
are you drawn forth among a world of men To slay the innocent ? 	It’s your job in life to kill the innocent ? 
what is my offense ? 	what did I do wrong ? 
where is the evidence that doth accuse me ? 	where’s the evidence against me ? 
what lawful quest have given their verdict up Unto the frowning judge ? 	where’s the jury ,  the judge ,  the lawful proceedings ,  the verdict ? 
or who pronounced The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death Before I be convict by course of law ? 	who pronounced this death sentence before a court of law could even convict me ? 
to threaten me with death is most unlawful . 	for you to threaten to kill me is most unlawful . 
I charge you ,  as you hope to have redemption ,  By Christ’s dear blood shed for our grievous sins ,  That you depart ,  and lay no hands on me . 	If you hope to have your sins forgiven by Christ’s dear blood ,  which He shed for our terrible sins ,  you must leave and keep your hands off me . 
what we will do ,  we do upon command . 	what we do we have been commanded to do . 
even so . 	all right . 
an please your Worship ,  Brakenbury ,  You may partake of anything we say . 	If you like ,  Brakenbury ,  you can listen to anything we say . 
we speak no treason ,  man . 	we’re not saying anything treasonous ,  man . 
we say the king Is wise and virtuous ,  and his noble queen Well struck in years ,  fair ,  and not jealous . 	we say the king is wise and good ,  and his noble queen is getting old ,  pretty ,  and not jealous . 
we say that Shore’s wife hath a pretty foot ,  A cherry lip ,  a bonny eye ,  a passing pleasing tongue ,  And that the queen’s kindred are made gentlefolks . 	and that Mr .  Shore’s wife has nice feet ,  cherry lips ,  pretty eyes ,  and a very pleasant way of expressing herself . 
how say you ,  sir ? 	what do you think ? 
can you deny all this ? 	Is there anything inaccurate in that ? 
with this ,  my lord ,  myself have naught to do . 	I have nothing to do with what you’re talking about ,  my lord . 
her husband ,  knave . 	her husband ,  you rascal . 
wouldst thou betray me ? 	are you going to get me in trouble ? 
I do beseech your Grace to pardon me ,  and withal Forbear your conference with the noble duke . 	I beg your
and he that hath commanded is our king . 	and the one who commands us is our king . 
and that same vengeance doth He hurl on thee For false forswearing and for murder too . 	he does ,  and now he’s taking revenge on you—for breaking promises and for murder ,  too . 
whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend . 	whom you swore you would protect and defend . 
how canst thou urge God’s dreadful law to us When thou hast broke it in such dear degree ? 	how dare you tell us about God’s laws when you have broken them so savagely yourself ? 
for whose sake did I that ill deed ? 	but for whose sake did I do that sick deed ? 
for Edward ,  for my brother ,  for his sake . 	for my brother Edward’s sake . 
If God will be avengèd for this deed ,  O ,  know you yet He doth it publicly ! 	If God will be revenged for this deed ,  he will do it publicly . 
take not the quarrel from His powerful arm; He needs no indirect or lawless course To cut off those that have offended Him . 	god doesn’t need to use indirect or illegal means to kill those who have offended him . 
my brother’s love ,  the devil ,  and my rage . 	my brother’s love ,  the devil ,  and my own anger made me do it . 
I am his brother ,  and I love him well . 	I am his brother ,  and I love him very much . 
you are deceived . 	you’re mistaken . 
your brother Gloucester hates you . 	richard ,  the duke of Gloucester ,  hates you . 
o ,  no ,  he loves me ,  and he holds me dear . 	no ,  he loves and cherishes me . 
go you to him from me . 	go to him from me . 
ay ,  so we will . 	we will . 
tell him ,  when that our princely father York Blessed his three sons with his victorious arm ,  He little thought of this divided friendship . 	tell him that when our noble father ,  the duke of York ,  gave his three sons his blessing ,  he never imagined that our friendship would come to this . 
bid Gloucester think of this ,  and he will weep . 	remind Richard of this ,  and he will weep . 
ay ,  millstones ,  as he lessoned us to weep . 	yes ,  he’ll weep stones ,  as he taught us to do . 
right ,  as snow in harvest . 	yes ,  as kind as snow to a harvest . 
come ,  you deceive yourself . 	come on ,  you’re fooling yourself . 
tis he that sends us to destroy you here . 	It’s Richard who sent us here to slaughter you . 
why ,  so he doth ,  when he delivers you From this earth’s thralldom to the joys of heaven . 	well ,  that’s what he’s doing—making you free to enjoy heaven . 
make peace with God ,  for you must die ,  my lord . 	make peace with God ,  for you must die ,  my lord . 
have you that holy feeling in your souls To counsel me to make my peace with God ,  And art you yet to your own souls so blind That thou will war with God by murd'ring me ? 	you have enough holy feeling to advise me to  “ make peace with God ,  ”  but you’re willing to go to war with God by murdering me ? 
o sirs ,  consider: they that set you on To do this deed will hate you for the deed . 	oh sirs ,  consider this: those who sent you to do this deed will hate you for doing it . 
relent ,  and save your souls . 	relent ,  and save your souls . 
which of you—if you were a prince’s son Being pent from liberty ,  as I am now— If two such murderers as yourselves came to you ,  Would not entreat for life ? 	If either of you were a prince’s son ,  and you were imprisoned as I am now ,  and two murderers like yourselves came to you—wouldn’t you beg for your life ? 
ay ,  you would beg ,  Were you in my distress . 	yes ,  you would beg ,  if you were in my position . 
relent ? 	relent ? 
no . 	no . 
tis cowardly and womanish . 	that’s cowardly and womanish . 
look behind you ,  my lord . 	look behind you ,  my lord . 
take that ,  and that . 	take that ,  and that . 
how now ? 	a  What’s going on ? 
what mean’st thou ,  that thou help’st me not ? 	what did you mean by not helping me ? 
by heavens ,  the duke shall know how slack you have been . 	by God ,  I’m going to tell the duke how slack you’ve been . 
I would he knew that I had saved his brother . 	I wish you could tell him I saved his brother . 
so do not I . 	I’m not . 
go ,  coward as thou art . 	go ,  coward that you are . 
well ,  I’ll go hide the body in some hole Till that the duke give order for his burial . 	well ,  I’ll go hide the body in some hole until the duke gives orders for his burial . 
and when I have my meed ,  I will away ,  For this will out ,  and then I must not stay . 	and when I get my reward ,  I’ll get out of here . 
now old desire doth in his deathbed lie ,  And young affection gapes to be his heir; That fair for which love groan'd for and would die ,  With tender Juliet match'd ,  is now not fair . 	now old desire lies in his deathbed ,  And young affection is longing to be his heir; That beauty for which love groaned and would die ,  With tender Juliet matched now isn’t beautiful . 
now Romeo is belov'd ,  and loves again ,  Alike bewitched by the charm of looks; But to his foe suppos'd he must complain ,  And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks . 	now Romeo is beloved ,  and loves again ,  Both of them bewitched by the charm of looks; But he must complain to his supposed enemy ,  And she must steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks . 
gregory ,  on my word ,  we'll not carry coals . 	gregory ,  on my word ,  we will not be humiliated ,  like carrying coal . 
no ,  for then we should be colliers . 	no ,  for that we should be coal miners . 
I mean ,  an we be in choler ,  we'll draw . 	I mean ,  if we are angry ,  we will draw our swords . 
ay ,  while you live ,  draw your neck out of the collar . 	yeah ,  while you’re alive ,  you’ll only draw your neck out of the hangman’s collar . 
I strike quickly ,  being moved . 	I can hit quickly ,  if I’m motivated . 
but thou art not quickly moved to strike . 	but you’re not quickly motivated to hit . 
a dog of the house of Montague moves me . 	a dog of the house of Montague motivates me . 
tis all one . 	makes no difference . 
when I have fought with the men ,  I will be civil with the maids; I will cut off their heads . 	I will cut off their heads . 
ay ,  the heads of the maids ,  or their maidenheads . 	yes ,  the heads of maids ,  or their virginity . 
take it in what sense thou wilt . 	take it any way you like . 
tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst ,  thou hadst been poor - John . 	It’s a good thing you’re not a fish . 
my naked weapon is out . 	It’s out already ! 
how ? 	how ? 
turn thy back and run ? 	by running away ? 
fear me not . 	don’t worry about me . 
no ,  marry . 	yeah right ! 
I fear thee ! 	let’s do this legally . 
let us take the law of our sides; let them begin . 	let them start with us . 
I will frown as I pass by ,  and let them take it as they list . 	let them take it whatever way they will . 
do you bite your thumb at us ,  sir ? 	did you just give us the finger ,  sir ? 
I do bite my thumb ,  sir . 	I did give the finger ,  sir . 
do you bite your thumb at us ,  sir ? 	did you give the finger to us ,  sir ? 
no ,  sir ,  I do not bite my thumb at you ,  sir; but I bite my thumb ,  sir . 	no ,  sir ,  I did not give the finger to you ,  sir ,  but I did give the finger . 
do you quarrel ,  sir ? 	are you picking a fight with us ,  sir ? 
quarrel ,  sir ? 	fight ,  sir ! 
no ,  sir . 	no ,  sir . 
but if you do ,  sir ,  I am for you . 	but if you do fight ,  sir ,  then I will fight you . 
I serve as good a man as you . 	I work for as good a man as you do . 
no better . 	no better ? 
well ,  sir . 	well ,  sir . 
say ‘better . ’ Here comes one of my master's kinsmen . 	say  “ better .  ”  Here comes one of Capulet’s relatives . 
yes ,  better ,  sir . 	yes ,  better ,  sir . 
you lie . 	you’re a liar ! 
you know not what you do . 	you don’t know what you’re doing ! 
what ,  art thou drawn among these heartless hinds ? 	what ,  is your sword out among these stupid servants ? 
I do but keep the peace . 	I’m only trying to keep the peace . 
put up thy sword ,  Or manage it to part these men with me . 	put your sword away ,  or use it to help me break up this fight . 
have at thee ,  coward ! 	fight me ,  coward ! 
clubs ,  bills ,  and partisans ! 	clubs ,  pikes ,  and more pikes ! 
strike ! 	strike ! 
beat them down ! 	beat them down ! 
down with the Capulets ! 	down with the Capulets ! 
down with the Montagues ! 	down with the Montagues ! 
what noise is this ? 	what’s going on ? 
give me my long sword ,  ho ! 	give me my long sword ,  hey ! 
a crutch ,  a crutch ! 	you need a crutch ,  a crutch ! 
why call you for a sword ? 	why do you want a sword !  ? 
my sword ,  I say ! 	my sword ,  I say ! 
old Montague is come And flourishes his blade in spite of me . 	old Montague is out there ,  and waves his blade in spite of me . 
thou villain Capulet ! —Hold me not ,  let me go . 	to his wife) Don’t hold me back – Let me go ! 
thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe . 	you will not move one foot to fight ! 
rebellious subjects ,  enemies to peace ,  Profaners of this neighbour - stained steel— Will they not hear ? 	rebellious subjects ,  enemies to peace . 
three civil brawls ,  bred of an airy word By thee ,  old Capulet ,  and Montague ,  Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets And made Verona's ancient citizens Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments To wield old partisans ,  in hands as old ,  Canker’d with peace ,  to part your canker'd hate . 	three civil brawls ,  started by a meaningless comment ,  By you ,  old Capulet ,  and you ,  Montague Have three times disturbed the quiet of our streets And made Verona’s senior citizens Take out sober mementos of war and fighting ,  To use them again as weapons ,  in their old hands ,  Rusted from not being used ,  as hate has rusted your families . 
If ever you disturb our streets again ,  Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace . 	If ever you disturb our streets again ,  You will suffer the death penalty for breaking the peace . 
once more ,  on pain of death ,  all men depart . 	once more ,  on pain of death ,  all men depart . 
who set this ancient quarrel new abroach ? 	who started it this time ? 
speak ,  nephew ,  were you by when it began ? 	speak ,  nephew ,  where you there when it started ? 
here were the servants of your adversary And yours ,  close fighting ere I did approach . 	the servants of Capulet ,  And your servants ,  were fighting before I got there . 
o ,  where is Romeo ? 	o ,  where is Romeo ? 
saw you him to - day ? 	have you seen him today . 
right glad I am he was not at this fray . 	I am very happy he wasn’t at this fight . 
I ,  measuring his affections by my own ,  Which then most sought where most might not be found ,  Being one too many by my weary self— Pursu'd my humour ,  not pursuing his ,  And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me . 	I thought he was feeling the way I was ,  That many people are at their busiest when they’re alone ,  Kept on walking and thinking ,  not worrying about him ,  And I gladly walked away from him who gladly fled from me . 
my noble uncle ,  do you know the cause ? 	my noble uncle ,  do you know the cause ? 
I neither know it nor can learn of him . 	I don’t know and he won’t tell me . 
have you importun'd him by any means ? 	have you questioned him at all ? 
both by myself and many other friends; But he ,  his own affections’ counsellor ,  Is to himself—I will not say how true— But to himself so secret and so close ,  So far from sounding and discovery ,  As is the bud bit with an envious worm Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air Or dedicate his beauty to the sun . 	both myself and many other friend But he ,  advisor to his own affections ,  Keeps it all to himself – I will not say how true But to himself ,  so secret and so close ,  So far from sounding and discovery ,  Just like a flower bud bit by a worm jealous of its beauty Before her can bloom and spread his sweet leaves to the air ,  Or dedicate his beauty to the sun . 
I would thou wert so happy by thy stay To hear true shrift . 	I wish you were happy to stay And hear his true confession . 
come ,  madam ,  let's away ,  Good morrow ,  cousin . 	come ,  madam ,  let’s leave . 
Is the day so young ? 	good morning ,  cousin Is it morning ? 
but new struck nine . 	It’s 9 AM . 
ay me ! 	dear me ! 
sad hours seem long . 	sad hours seem long . 
was that my father that went hence so fast ? 	was that my father that went away so fast ? 
It was . 	It was . 
what sadness lengthens Romeo's hours ? 	what sadness lengthens Romeo's hours ? 
not having that ,  which ,  having ,  makes them short . 	not having the thing that would make them short hours . 
In love ? 	In love ? 
out— Of love ? 	out ,  Of love ? 
out of her favour ,  where I am in love . 	on the outs with the girl I love . 
alas that love ,  so gentle in his view ,  Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof ! 	alas ,  that love ,  so gentle in his promise ,  Should be so tyrannous and rough in reality ! 
alas that love ,  whose view is muffled still ,  Should without eyes see pathways to his will ! 	alas ,  that love ,  whose eyes are blindfolded ,  Should ,  without eyes ,  see ways to have his will done . 
where shall we dine ? 	where should we eat ? 
o me ! 	oh ,  me ! 
what fray was here ? 	what fight was here ? 
yet tell me not ,  for I have heard it all . 	never mind ,  don’t tell me ,  for I have heard it all . 
o loving hate ! 	o loving hate ! 
o any thing ,  of nothing first create ! 	o anything of nothing first create ! 
o heavy lightness ! 	o heavy lightness ! 
serious vanity ! 	serious vanity ! 
misshapen chaos of well - seeming forms ! 	mis - shapen disorder of perfectly pleasing forms ! 
feather of lead ,  bright smoke ,  cold fire ,  sick health ! 	feather of lead ,  bright smoke ,  cold fire ,  sick health ! 
this love feel I ,  that feel no love in this . 	this love feel I makes me feel no love in this . 
dost thou not laugh ? 	why don’t you laugh ? 
no ,  coz ,  I rather weep . 	no ,  cousin ,  I'd rather cry . 
good heart ,  at what ? 	good heart ,  at what ? 
at thy good heart's oppression . 	at your good heart's oppression . 
why ,  such is love's transgression . 	why ,  that is love's transgression . 
griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast ,  Which thou wilt propagate ,  to have it prest With more of thine . 	my own griefs lie heavy in my heart; Which you will take over to have it paired With more grief of your own . 
this love that thou hast shown Doth add more grief to too much of mine own . 	this love that you have shown Adds more grief to mine which is already too much . 
love is a smoke rais'd with the fume of sighs; Being purg'd ,  a fire sparkling in lovers’ eyes; Being vex'd ,  a sea nourish'd with lovers’ tears . 	love is like smoke rising with clouds of sighs; Being cleansed ,  a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes; Being vexed ,  a sea nourished with lovers' tears . 
what is it else ? 	what else is it ? 
a madness most discreet ,  A choking gall ,  and a preserving sweet . 	a madness most discreet ,  A choking acid ,  and a preserving sweet . 
farewell ,  my coz . 	farewell ,  my coz . 
soft ! 	hold on ! 
I will go along . 	I’ll go along . 
an if you leave me so ,  you do me wrong . 	If you leave me so depressed ,  you do me wrong . 
tut ! 	tut ! 
tell me in sadness ,  who is that you love ? 	tell me in sadness who is that you love ? 
what ,  shall I groan and tell thee ? 	what ,  shall I groan and tell you ? 
groan ? 	groan ?  ! 
why ,  no; But sadly tell me who . 	why ,  no; But sadly tell me who . 
In sadness ,  cousin ,  I do love a woman . 	In sadness ,  cousin ,  I do love a woman . 
I aim'd so near when I suppos'd you lov'd . 	I thought so when I supposed you were in love . 
a right good markman ! 	a right good marksman ! 
and she's fair I love . 	and she's fair who I love . 
a right fair mark ,  fair coz ,  is soonest hit . 	a right fair mark ,  fair coz ,  is the first hit . 
well ,  in that hit you miss . 	well ,  in that hit ,  you miss . 
she will not stay the siege of loving terms ,  Nor bide th’ encounter of assailing eyes ,  Nor ope her lap to saint - seducing gold . 	she will not put up with loving language Nor tolerate loving looks ,  Nor does she care if a guy is rich . 
o ,  she's rich in beauty; only poor That ,  when she dies ,  with beauty dies her store . 	o ,  she's rich in beauty; only poor That ,  when she dies ,  her beauty dies with her . 
then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste ? 	then she has sworn to remain a virgin ? 
she hath ,  and in that sparing makes huge waste; For beauty ,  starv'd with her severity ,  Cuts beauty off from all posterity . 	she has ,  and in that decision ,  is wasting her looks and charms; For beauty ,  starved with this woman’s severity ,  Cuts beauty off from all posterity . 
she is too fair ,  too wise ,  wisely too fair ,  To merit bliss by making me despair . 	she is too fair ,  too wise; wisely too fair ,  To earn her own happiness by making me despair . 
she hath forsworn to love ,  and in that vow Do I live dead that live to tell it now . 	she has sworn not to love; and ,  in that vow ,  I am really dead as I stand here alive to tell you about it now . 
be rul'd by me: forget to think of her . 	listen to me ,  forget about her . 
o ,  teach me how I should forget to think ! 	o ,  teach me how I should forget to think . 
tis the way To call hers ,  exquisite ,  in question more . 	that way is To call her beauty ,  which is exquisite ,  more into question . 
show me a mistress that is passing fair ,  What doth her beauty serve but as a note Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair ? 	show me a mistress that is passing fair ,  What purpose does her beauty serve but as a reminder That I may see some other woman who cannot pass her beauty ? 
farewell . 	farewell . 
thou canst not teach me to forget . 	thou canst not teach me to forget . 
I'll pay that doctrine ,  or else die in debt . 	I'll prove you wrong ,  or else die trying . 
but Montague is bound as well as I ,  In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard ,  I think ,  For men so old as we to keep the peace . 	but Montague is the same restrictions as I am ,  The same penalty; and it should not be hard ,  I think ,  For men so old as we to keep the peace . 
of honourable reckoning are you both ,  And pity 'tis you liv'd at odds so long . 	of honorable status are you both; And it’s a pity that you lived at odds so long . 
but now ,  my lord ,  what say you to my suit ? 	but now ,  my lord ,  what say you to my request ? 
younger than she are happy mothers made . 	younger girls than she are made happy mothers . 
and too soon marr'd are those so early made . 	and too soon marred are those made young mothers . 
the earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she; She is the hopeful lady of my earth . 	the earth has swallowed all my hopes but she ,  She is the last hope I have . 
but woo her ,  gentle Paris ,  get her heart; My will to her consent is but a part . 	but woo her ,  gentle Paris ,  get her love . 
this night I hold an old accustom'd feast ,  Whereto I have invited many a guest ,  Such as I love; and you among the store ,  One more ,  most welcome ,  makes my number more . 	this night I hold an old feast that I’ve always given ,  To which I have invited many guests ,  People I love; and if you will be among the guests ,  You’ll be one more ,  most welcome ,  and will make my guests more . 
at my poor house look to behold this night Earth - treading stars that make dark heaven light . 	at my poor house look to behold this night Women like earth - treading stars that make dark heaven light . 
such comfort as do lusty young men feel When well - apparell'd April on the heel Of limping Winter treads ,  even such delight Among fresh female buds shall you this night Inherit at my house . 	they give such comfort as lusty young men feel When Spring appears with all the flowers and warmth After a long ,  cold winter ,  even such delight Among fresh female flower buds shall you this night Find at my house; hear all ,  all see ,  And like her most whose worth shall be the most . 
hear all ,  all see ,  And like her most whose merit most shall be; Which ,  amongst view of many ,  mine ,  being one ,  May stand in number ,  though in reck'ning none . 	which ,  among the many women ,  my daughter ,  being one ,  May stand out ,  though in my eyes ,  none can match her . 
come ,  go with me . 	come ,  go with me . 
It is written that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor with his last ,  the fisher with his pencil ,  and the painter with his nets; but I am sent to find those persons whose names are here writ ,  and can never find what names the writing person hath here writ . 	It is written that the shoemaker should meddle with his measuring tape and the tailor with his shoe form ,  the fisher with his pencil ,  and the painter with his nets; but I am sent to find the people whose names are written here ,  and I cannot read what names the writing person has written here . 
I must to the learned . 	I must find a reader . 
In good time ! 	in good time ! 
take thou some new infection to thy eye ,  And the rank poison of the old will die . 	take some new infection to your eye ,  And the rank poison of the old love will die . 
your plantain leaf is excellent for that . 	your plantain - leaf is excellent for that . 
for what ,  I pray thee ? 	for what ,  please tell me ? 
for your broken shin . 	for your broken shin . 
why ,  Romeo ,  art thou mad ? 	why ,  Romeo ,  are you crazy ? 
not mad ,  but bound more than a madman is; Shut up in Prison ,  kept without my food ,  Whipp'd and tormented and– God - eve ,  good fellow . 	not crazy ,  but more tied up than a madman is; I am shut up in prison ,  kept without my food ,  Whipped and tormented and— Good day ,  good fellow . 
I pray ,  sir ,  can you read ? 	good day . —Please tell me ,  sir ,  can you read ? 
ay ,  mine own fortune in my misery . 	yes ,  my own fortune in my misery . 
perhaps you have learned it without book . 	perhaps you have learned it without book . 
but I pray ,  can you read any thing you see ? 	but please ,  can you read anything you see ? 
ay ,  If I know the letters and the language . 	yes ,  If I know the letters and the language . 
ye say honestly . 	you speak honestly . 
rest you merry ! 	have a nice day ! 
stay ,  fellow; I can read . 	stay ,  fellow; I can read . 
whither should they come ? 	where should they come ? 
up . 	up . 
whither to supper ? 	where ? 
to our house . 	to supper; to our house . 
whose house ? 	whose house ? 
my master's . 	my master's . 
Indeed ,  I should have ask'd you that before . 	Indeed I should have asked you that before . 
now I'll tell you without asking . 	now I'll tell you without asking . 
my master is the great rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house of Montagues ,  I pray ,  come and crush a cup of wine . 	my master is the great rich Capulet; and if you are not of the house of Montagues ,  please ,  come and have a cup of wine . 
rest you merry ! 	have a nice day ! 
at this same ancient feast of Capulet's Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lov'st; With all the admired beauties of Verona . 	at this same ancient feast of Capulet's ,  The fair Rosaline whom you love so much will have supper; With all the admired beauties of Verona . 
go thither ,  and with unattainted eye Compare her face with some that I shall show ,  And I will make thee think thy swan a crow . 	let’s go ,  and ,  with a clear eye ,  Compare her face with some others that I shall show you ,  And I will make you think your swan is a crow . 
one fairer than my love ? 	one fairer than my love ? 
the all - seeing sun Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun . 	the all - seeing sun Never saw anything to match her since the world first began . 
I'll go along ,  no such sight to be shown ,  But to rejoice in splendour of my own . 	I'll go along ,  not to be shown such a sight ,  But to rejoice in splendor of my own love’s looks . 
nurse ,  where's my daughter ? 	nurse ,  where's my daughter ? 
call her forth to me . 	call her to come to me . 
now ,  by my maidenhead at twelve year old ,  I bade her come . 	now ,  by my virginity at twelve years old ,  I told her to come . 
what ,  lamb ! 	what ,  lamb ! 
what ladybird ! 	what ladybird ! 
god forbid ! 	god forbid ! 
where's this girl ? 	where's this girl ? 
what ,  Juliet ! 	what ,  Juliet ! 
your mother . 	your mother . 
madam ,  I am here . 	madam ,  I am here . 
what is your will ? 	what is do you need ? 
this is the matter—Nurse ,  give leave awhile ,  We must talk in secret . 	this is the matter ,  Nurse ,  leave us alone a while ,  We must talk in secret . 
nurse ,  come back again; I have remember'd me ,  thou shalt hear our counsel . 	nurse ,  come back again; I have remembered ,  you can hear our conversation . 
thou knowest my daughter's of a pretty age . 	you know my daughter's at a pretty age . 
faith ,  I can tell her age unto an hour . 	believe me ,  I can tell her age to the hour . 
she's not fourteen . 	she's not fourteen . 
I'll lay fourteen of my teeth— And yet ,  to my teen be it spoken ,  I have but four— She is not fourteen . 	I'll bet fourteen of my teeth ,  And yet ,  to tell the truth ,  I’ve only got four ,  She is not fourteen . 
how long is it now To Lammastide ? 	how long is it now To the middle of July ? 
a fortnight and odd days . 	two weeks and a couple of days . 
even or odd ,  of all days in the year ,  Come Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen . 	couple of days or not ,  of all days in the year ,  Come the middle of July ,  she’ll be fourteen . 
susan and she (God rest all Christian souls ! 	my daughter ,  Susan ,  and she God rest all Christian souls ! 
were of an age . 	were the same age . 
well ,  Susan is with God; She was too good for me . 	well ,  Susan is with God; She was too good for me . 
but ,  as I said ,  On Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen; That shall she ,  marry; I remember it well . 	but ,  as I said ,  In the middle of July ,  she’ll be fourteen; That she will ,  by Mary; I remember it well . 
tis since the earthquake now eleven years; And she was wean'd (I never shall forget it) ,  Of all the days of the year ,  upon that day; For I had then laid wormwood to my dug ,  Sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall . 	It’s been eleven years since the earthquake; And she was weaned ,  I never shall forget it  ,  Of all the days of the year ,  upon that day . 
nay ,  I do bear a brain . 	no ,  I do remember . 
a’ was a merry man) took up the child . 	he was a merry man ,  took up the child . 
yea , ’ quoth he ,  ‘dost thou fall upon thy face ? 	look here ,  “  he said ,   “ did you fall on your face ? 
I warrant ,  an I should live a thousand years ,  I never should forget it . 	I swear ,  if I should live a thousand yeas ,  I never should forget it; 'Won’t you ,  Jule ? 
yea , ’ quoth my husband ,  ‘fall'st upon thy face ? 	yes ,  ”  said my husband ,   ” you fell on your face ? 
peace ,  I have done . 	peace ,  I have done . 
god mark thee to his grace ! 	god mark you for his grace ! 
thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nurs'd . 	you were the prettiest baby that I ever nursed . 
an I might live to see thee married once ,  I have my wish . 	If I live to see you married ,  I have my wish . 
marry ,  that ‘marry’ is the very theme I came to talk of . 	by Mary ,  that  “ marry ”  is what I want to talk about . 
tell me ,  daughter Juliet ,  How stands your disposition to be married ? 	tell me ,  daughter Juliet ,  What do you think about getting married ? 
It is an honour that I dream not of . 	It is an honor that I never dreamed about . 
well ,  think of marriage now . 	well ,  think of marriage now . 
younger than you ,  Here in Verona ,  ladies of esteem ,  Are made already mothers . 	younger than you ,  Here in Verona ,  ladies of esteem ,  Are made already mothers . 
by my count ,  I was your mother much upon these years That you are now a maid . 	by my count I was your mother pretty close to the age That you are now . 
thus then in brief: The valiant Paris seeks you for his love . 	thus ,  then ,  here it is; The valiant Paris seeks you for his love . 
a man ,  young lady ! 	a man ,  young lady ! 
lady ,  such a man As all the world -  why he's a man of wax . 	lady ,  such a man As all the world why he's the very image of a wax statue . 
verona's summer hath not such a flower . 	verona's summer does not have such a flower of a man . 
nay ,  he's a flower ,  in faith—a very flower . 	no ,  he's a flower ,  I believe ,  a very flower . 
what say you ? 	what do you say ? 
can you love the gentleman ? 	can you love the gentleman ? 
the fish lives in the sea ,  and 'tis much pride For fair without the fair within to hide . 	the fish lives in the sea; and it takes a lot of pride For beauty outside to hide without beauty inside . 
that book in many's eyes doth share the glory ,  That in gold clasps locks in the golden story; So shall you share all that he doth possess ,  By having him making yourself no less . 	this book in many girls' eyes shares the glory ,  That with gold clips locks in the golden story; So you will share all that he possesses ,  By having him ,  you are doing no less than making yourself . 
no less ? 	no less ? 
nay ,  bigger ! 	no ,  bigger ! 
women grow by men . 	women grow by men . 
speak briefly ,  can you like of Paris’ love ? 	speak briefly ,  can you like Paris' love ? 
I'll look to like ,  if looking liking move; But no more deep will I endart mine eye Than your consent gives strength to make it fly . 	I'll look at him to like him ,  if ,  just by looking ,  I can like him ,  But I will not go any further Than your consent gives my action strength to make it fly . 
madam ,  the guests are come ,  supper serv'd up ,  you call'd ,  my young lady ask'd for ,  the nurse curs'd in the pantry ,  and everything in extremity . 	madam ,  the guests are come ,  supper served up ,  you are called ,  my young lady asked for ,  the nurse cursed in the pantry ,  and everything is in chaos . 
we follow thee . 	we will follow you . 
juliet ,  the County stays . 	juliet ,  the count is waiting . 
go ,  girl ,  seek happy nights to happy days . 	go ,  girl ,  seek these happy nights to give you happy days . 
what ,  shall this speech be spoke for our excuse ? 	what are we going to give as our excuse ? 
or shall we on without apology ? 	or shall we just go on without any apology ? 
the date is out of such prolixity . 	the time is of such a boring duration . 
nay ,  gentle Romeo ,  we must have you dance . 	no ,  gentle Romeo ,  we must have you dance . 
not I ,  believe me . 	not me ,  believe me . 
you have dancing shoes With nimble soles; I have a soul of lead So stakes me to the ground I cannot move . 	you have dancing shoes ,  With nimble soles; I have a soul of lead That pins me to the ground . 
you are a lover . 	I cannot move . 
borrow Cupid's wings And soar with them above a common bound . 	you are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings ,  And use them to soar above that leaden soul . 
I am too sore enpierced with his shaft To soar with his light feathers; and so bound I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe . 	I am too sore from being pierced with Cupid’s shaft To soar with his wings; and so wounded ,  I cannot jump even a little bit above dull woe . 
under love's heavy burden do I sink . 	under love's heavy burden ,  I would sink . 
and ,  to sink in it ,  should you burden love— Too great oppression for a tender thing . 	and ,  to sink in it ,  you should outweigh love; Too great oppression for a tender feeling . 
Is love a tender thing ? 	Is love a tender thing ? 
It is too rough ,  Too rude ,  too boist'rous ,  and it pricks like thorn . 	it is too rough ,  Too rude ,  too boisterous; and it pricks like thorn . 
give me a case to put my visage in . 	give me my mask . 
a visor for a visor ! 	a fig for a mask ! 
what care I What curious eye doth quote deformities ? 	what do I care What curious eye lists my deformities ? 
here are the beetle brows shall blush for me . 	here are the long ,  black eyebrows that shall blush for me . 
come ,  knock and enter; and no sooner in But every man betake him to his legs . 	come ,  knock and enter; and ,  as soon as we get in ,  Every man start running . 
a torch for me ! 	just give me a torch . 
let wantons light of heart Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels; For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase ,  I'll be a candle - holder and look on; The game was ne'er so fair ,  and I am done . 	let spoiled children ,  light of heart ,  Tickle the senseless weeds with their running and dancing; For I am composing proverbs with a grandfather’s words ,  I'll be a candle - holder and look on ,  The game was never any fun and I am done . 
dun's the mouse ,  the constable's own word ! 	tut ,  dun's the brownish color of a mouse ,  the constable's own word . 
nay ,  that's not so . 	no ,  that's not so . 
I mean ,  sir ,  in delay We waste our lights in vain ,  like lamps by day . 	I mean ,  sir ,  in delaying our entrance ,  We waste our lights in vain ,  like lamps by day . 
take our good meaning ,  for our judgment sits Five times in that ere once in our five wits . 	take our good meaning ,  for our judgment sits Five times more in that sense ,  than once in our five wits . 
and we mean well ,  in going to this mask; But 'tis no wit to go . 	and we mean well ,  in going to this masquerade; But it’s no great sport to go . 
why ,  may one ask ? 	why ,  may one ask ? 
I dreamt a dream to - night . 	I dreamt a dream tonight . 
and so did I . 	and so did I . 
well ,  what was yours ? 	well ,  what was yours ? 
that dreamers often lie . 	that dreamers often lie . 
In bed asleep ,  while they do dream things true . 	In bed asleep ,  while they do dream about things are true . 
o ,  then I see Queen Mab hath been with you . 	o ,  then ,  I see Queen Mab hath been with you . 
sometimes she driveth o'er a soldier's neck ,  And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats ,  Of breaches ,  ambuscadoes ,  Spanish blades ,  Of healths five fathom deep; and then anon Drums in his ear ,  at which he starts and wakes ,  And being thus frighted ,  swears a prayer or two And sleeps again . 	sometime she drives over a soldier's neck ,  And then he dreams of cutting foreign throats ,  Of infractions  ,  sneak attacks ,  Spanish swords ,  Of safety five fathoms deep in the sea; and then soon He hears drums in his ear ,  at which he starts and wakes; And ,  being thus frightened ,  swears a prayer or two ,  And sleeps again . 
this is that very Mab That plats the manes of horses in the night And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs ,  Which once untangled much misfortune bodes This is the hag ,  when maids lie on their backs ,  That presses them and learns them first to bear ,  Making them women of good carriage . 	this is that very Mab That braids the manes of horses in the night; And bakes tangled messes of hair into foul dirty hairs ,  Which ,  once untangled ,  signals the beginning of much misfortune . 
true ,  I talk of dreams; Which are the children of an idle brain ,  Begot of nothing but vain fantasy; Which is as thin of substance as the air ,  And more inconstant than the wind ,  who wooes Even now the frozen bosom of the north And ,  being anger'd ,  puffs away from thence ,  Turning his face to the dew - dropping south . 	true ,  I talk of dreams ,  Which are the children of an idle brain ,  Born of nothing but vain fantasy; Which is as thin of substance as the air ,  And more inconstant than the wind ,  who courts ,  Even now ,  the frozen heart of the north ,  And ,  being angered ,  puffs away from there ,  Turning his face to the dew - dropping south . 
this wind you talk of blows us from ourselves . 	this wind you talk of blows us from our party crashing . 
supper is done ,  and we shall come too late . 	supper is done ,  and we shall come too late . 
but He ,  that hath the steerage of my course ,  Direct my sail ! 	but God who has the plan of my journey on this sea ,  Direct my sail ! 
on ,  lusty gentlemen ! 	on ,  lusty gentlemen ! 
strike ,  drum . 	strike the drum . 
where's Potpan ,  that he helps not to take away ? 	where's Potpan ,  that he doesn’t help with cleaning up ? 
he shift a trencher ! 	move the plates ! 
he scrape a trencher ! 	scrape the plates ! 
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands ,  and they unwash'd too ,  'tis a foul thing . 	when good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands ,  and they unwashed too ,  it’s a foul thing . 
away with the joint - stools ,  remove the court - cupboard ,  look to the plate . 	away with the good stools ,  remove the china closet ,  look to the plate . 
good thou ,  save me a piece of marchpane and ,  as thou lovest me ,  let the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell . 	please save me a piece of marzipan; and because you love me ,  let the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell . 
ay ,  boy ,  ready . 	yes ,  boy ,  ready . 
you are look'd for and call'd for ,  ask'd for and sought for ,  in the great chamber . 	you are looked for and called for ,  asked for and sought for in the great chamber . 
welcome ,  gentlemen ! 	welcome ,  gentlemen ! 
ladies that have their toes Unplagu'd with corns will have a bout with you . 	ladies whose toes are Not plagued with corns will have a dance with you . 
ah ha ,  my mistresses ! 	ah ha ,  my mistresses ! 
which of you all Will now deny to dance ? 	which one of you all Will now deny to dance ? 
she that makes dainty ,  She ,  I'll swear ,  hath corns . 	she that makes dainty and shy ,  she ,  I'll swear has corns ! 
am I come near ye now ? 	am I to come near you now ? 
welcome ,  gentlemen ! 	welcome ,  gentlemen ! 
you are welcome ,  gentlemen ! 	you are welcome ,  gentlemen ! 
come ,  musicians ,  play . 	come ,  musicians ,  play . 
a hall ,  a hall ! 	a hall a hall ! 
give room ! 	make room ! 
ah ,  sirrah ,  this unlook'd - for sport comes well . 	ah ,  Servant ,  this unlooked - for sport comes well . 
by'r Lady ,  thirty years . 	by our Lady ,  thirty years . 
what ,  man ? 	what ,  man ! 
tis since the nuptial of Lucentio ,  Come Pentecost as quickly as it will ,  Some five - and - twenty years ,  and then we mask'd . 	It’s since the wedding of Lucentio ,  Come Pentecost as quickly as it will ,  it’s Some five - and - twenty years since we masked . 
tis more ,  'tis more ! 	It’s more ,  it’s more . 
his son is elder ,  sir; His son is thirty . 	his son is older ,  sir; His son is thirty . 
will you tell me that ? 	will you tell me that ? 
his son was but a ward two years ago . 	his son was but a ward two years ago . 
what lady's that ,  which doth enrich the hand Of yonder knight ? 	what lady is that ,  who make the hand Of that knight richer ? 
I know not ,  sir . 	I know not ,  sir . 
o ,  she doth teach the torches to burn bright ! 	o ,  she teaches the torches to burn bright ! 
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear— Beauty too rich for use ,  for earth too dear ! 	It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night Like a rich jewel in an Ethiopian’s ear; Beauty too rich for use ,  for earth too dear ! 
so shows a snowy dove trooping with crows As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows . 	so a snowy dove trooping with crows shows As yonder lady over her fellows shows . 
the measure done ,  I'll watch her place of stand And ,  touching hers ,  make blessed my rude hand . 	the dance done ,  I'll watch to see where she’ll stand ,  And ,  touching her hand ,  will make blessed my rude hand . 
did my heart love till now ? 	did my heart love till now ? 
forswear it ,  sight ! 	renounce it ,  sight ! 
for I ne'er saw true beauty till this night . 	for I never saw true beauty till this night . 
this ,  by his voice ,  should be a Montague . 	this ,  by his voice ,  should be a Montague . 
fetch me my rapier ,  boy . 	fetch me my rapier ,  boy . 
what ,  dares the slave Come hither ,  cover'd with an antic face ,  To fleer and scorn at our solemnity ? 	what ,  dares the slave Come hither ,  covered with a mask ,  To sneer and scorn at our feast ? 
now ,  by the stock and honour of my kin ,  To strike him dead I hold it not a sin . 	now ,  by the stock and honor of my kin ,  I don’t think it’s a sin to strike him dead . 
why ,  how now ,  kinsman ? 	why ,  what ,  kinsman ! 
wherefore storm you so ? 	why do you storm so ? 
uncle ,  this is a Montague ,  our foe; A villain ,  that is hither come in spite To scorn at our solemnity this night . 	uncle ,  this is a Montague ,  our foe; A villain ,  that has come here in spite ,  To scorn at our feast this night . 
young Romeo is it ? 	young Romeo ,  is it ? 
tis he ,  that villain Romeo . 	It is he ,  that villain ,  Romeo . 
content thee ,  gentle coz ,  let him alone . 	be content ,  gentle cousin ,  leave him alone . 
he bears him like a portly gentleman ,  And ,  to say truth ,  Verona brags of him To be a virtuous and well - govern'd youth . 	he bears himself like a portly gentleman; And ,  to say truth ,  Verona brags of him To be a virtuous and well - governed youth . 
I would not for the wealth of all this town Here in my house do him disparagement . 	I would not for the wealth of all the town Do him disrespect here in my house . 
therefore be patient ,  take no note of him . 	therefore be patient ,  take no note of him ,  It is my will . 
It is my will; the which if thou respect ,  Show a fair presence and put off these frowns ,  An ill - beseeming semblance for a feast . 	If you respect my will ,  then Show a fair presence and put off these frowns ,  They are not the proper expressions for a feast . 
It fits when such a villain is a guest . 	It fits ,  when such a villain is a guest . 
what ,  goodman boy ? 	what ,  good lord ,  boy ! 
am I the master here ,  or you ? 	am I the master here or you ? 
go to ! 	come on !  . 
you'll not endure him ? 	you'll not endure him ! 
you will set cock - a - hoop ! 	you will be boastful ! 
you'll be the man ! 	you'll be the man ! 
why ,  uncle ,  'tis a shame . 	why ,  uncle ,  it’s a shame . 
go to ,  go to ! 	come on ,  come on ! 
you are a saucy boy . 	you are a saucy boy . 
Is't so ,  indeed ? 	Is it so ,  indeed ? 
you must contrary me ! 	you must contradict me ! 
I'll make you quiet; what ! —Cheerly ,  my hearts ! 	I'll make you quiet . 
patience perforce with wilful choler meeting Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting . 	patience perhaps meeting with a willful temper Makes my flesh tremble in their differences . 
I will withdraw; but this intrusion shall ,  Now seeming sweet ,  convert to bitt'rest gall . 	I will withdraw ,  but this intrusion shall ,  Now seeming sweet ,  convert to bitter acid . 
If I profane with my unworthiest hand This holy shrine ,  the gentle fine is this: My lips ,  two blushing pilgrims ,  ready stand To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss . 	If I desecrate with my most unworthy hand This holy shrine of your hand ,  the gentle end is this ,  My lips ,  like two blushing pilgrims ,  ready stand To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss . 
good pilgrim ,  you do wrong your hand too much ,  Which mannerly devotion shows in this; For saints have hands that pilgrims’ hands do touch ,  And palm to palm is holy palmers’ kiss . 	good pilgrim ,  you wrong your hand too much ,  Which is showing devotion and good manners in this touch; For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands touch ,  And putting a palm to another palm is a holy pilgrim's kiss . 
have not saints lips ,  and holy palmers too ? 	don’t saints and holy pilgrims have lips too ? 
ay ,  pilgrim ,  lips that they must use in prayer . 	yes ,  pilgrim ,  lips that they must use in prayer . 
saints do not move ,  though grant for prayers’ sake . 	saints do not move ,  though they do grant favors for prayers' sake . 
then move not while my prayer's effect I take . 	then don’t move while I take my prayer's answer . 
thus from my lips ,  by thine my sin is purg'd . 	thus from my lips ,  by your lips ,  my sin is purged . 
then have my lips the sin that they have took . 	then ,  do my lips have the sin that they have taken from yours ?  . 
sin from my lips ? 	sin from my lips ? 
o trespass sweetly urg'd ! 	o sin sweetly encouraged ! 
give me my sin again . 	give me my sin again . 
you kiss by th’ book . 	you kiss by the book . 
madam ,  your mother craves a word with you . 	madam ,  your mother craves a word with you . 
what is her mother ? 	who is her mother ? 
marry ,  bachelor ,  Her mother is the lady of the house . 	by Mary ,  young man ,  Her mother is the lady of the house . 
and a good lady ,  and a wise and virtuous . 	and a good lady ,  and a wise and virtuous lady . 
Is she a Capulet ? 	Is she a Capulet ? 
o dear account ! 	o dear account ! 
my life is my foe's debt . 	now I am in debt to my enemy . 
away ,  be gone; the sport is at the best . 	let’s go ,  we’re leaving; our party - crashing is done . 
ay ,  so I fear; the more is my unrest . 	yes ,  so I fear; and my fears are more than they were . 
Is it e'en so ? 	I can’t change your mind ? 
more torches here ! 	more torches here ! 
come on then ,  let's to bed . 	come on then ,  let's go to bed . 
ah ,  sirrah ,  by my fay ,  it waxes late; I'll to my rest . 	ah ,  Servant [to 2 Capulet] ,  by my faith ,  it grows late; I'm going to sleep . 
come hither ,  Nurse . 	come here ,  nurse . 
what is yon gentleman ? 	who is that gentleman over there ? 
the son and heir of old Tiberio . 	the son and heir of old Tiberio . 
what's he that now is going out of door ? 	who is he that is going out the door now ? 
marry ,  that ,  I think ,  be young Petruchio . 	by Mary ,  that ,  I think ,  is young Petruchio . 
what's he that follows there ,  that would not dance ? 	who is he that follows there ,  the one who wouldn’t dance ? 
I know not . 	I don’t know . 
his name is Romeo ,  and a Montague ,  The only son of your great enemy . 	his name is Romeo ,  and a Montague; The only son of your great enemy . 
my only love ,  sprung from my only hate ! 	my only love sprung from my only hate ! 
too early seen unknown ,  and known too late ! 	seen too early as an unknown ,  and now known too late ! 
prodigious birth of love it is to me That I must love a loathed enemy . 	It is a monstrous birth of love to me ,  That I must love a loathéd enemy . 
what's this ? 	what's this ? 
what's this ? 	what's this ? 
a rhyme I learn'd even now Of one I danc'd withal . 	a rhyme I learned even now From someone I couldn’t dance with . 
anon ,  anon ! 	again ,  again ! 
come ,  let's away; the strangers all are gone . 	come ,  let's go; all the strangers are gone . 
the clock struck nine when I did send the nurse; In half an hour she promis'd to return . 	the clock struck nine when I sent the nurse; She promised to return in half an hour . 
perchance she cannot meet him . 	maybe she can’t meet him . 
that's not so . 	that's not true . 
o ,  she is lame ! 	o ,  she is lame ! 
love's heralds should be thoughts ,  Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams Driving back shadows over low'ring hills . 	love's heralds should be thoughts ,  Which glide ten times faster than the sun's beams ,  Driving back shadows over lowering hills . 
therefore do nimble - pinion'd doves draw Love ,  And therefore hath the wind - swift Cupid wings . 	this way doves with nimble wings draw love ,  And that’s why the wind - swift Cupid has wings . 
now is the sun upon the highmost hill Of this day's journey ,  and from nine till twelve Is three long hours; yet she is not come . 	now is the sun upon the highest hill Of this day's journey ,  and from nine till twelve Is three long hours ,  yet she’s not back . 
o God ,  she comes ! 	o God ,  she comes ! 
o honey nurse ,  what news ? 	o honey nurse ,  what news ? 
hast thou met with him ? 	have you met with him ? 
send thy man away . 	send your man away . 
peter ,  stay at the gate . 	peter ,  stay at the gate . 
now ,  good sweet nurse—O Lord ,  why look'st thou sad ? 	now ,  good sweet nurse ,  O Lord ,  why do you look sad ? 
what a jaunt have I had ! 	what a jaunt I have had ! 
I would thou hadst my bones ,  and I thy news . 	I wish you had my bones ,  and I had your news . 
jesu ,  what haste ! 	jesus ,  what’s your hurry ? 
can you not stay awhile ? 	can’t you rest awhile ? 
do you not see that I am out of breath ? 	don’t you see that I’m out of breath ? 
how art thou out of breath when thou hast breath To say to me that thou art out of breath ? 	how are you out of breath ,  when you have breath To say to me that you are out of breath ? 
the excuse that thou dost make in this delay Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse . 	the excuse that you make in this delay Is longer than the tale you excuse . 
Is thy news good or bad ? 	Is your news good or bad ? 
answer to that . 	answer that . 
say either ,  and I'll stay the circumstance . 	say either good or bad ,  and I'll wait for the details . 
let me be satisfied ,  is't good or bad ? 	let me be satisfied ,  is it good or bad ? 
romeo ? 	romeo ! 
he is not the flower of courtesy ,  but ,  I'll warrant him ,  as gentle as a lamb . 	he is not the flower of courtesy ,  but I'll guarantee that he is as gentle as a lamb . 
go thy ways ,  wench; serve God . 	go about your business ,  wench; serve God . 
what ,  have you din'd at home ? 	what ,  have you dined at home ? 
what says he of our marriage ? 	what does he say about our marriage ? 
what of that ? 	what of that ? 
lord ,  how my head aches ! 	lord ,  how my head aches ! 
what a head have I ! 	what a head I’ve got ! 
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces . 	It throbs as if it’s going to fall into twenty pieces . 
my back o’ t’ other side , —ah ,  my back ,  my back ! 	my back on the other side ,  O ,  my back ,  my back ! 
beshrew your heart for sending me about To catch my death with jaunting up and down ! 	curse your heart for sending me out To catch my death with prancing up and down ! 
I’ faith ,  I am sorry that thou art not well . 	In faith ,  I am sorry that you’re not well . 
sweet ,  sweet ,  sweet nurse ,  tell me ,  what says my love ? 	sweet ,  sweet ,  sweet nurse ,  tell me ,  what does my love say ? 
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,  and a courteous ,  and a kind ,  and a handsome; and ,  I warrant ,  a virtuous—Where is your mother ? 	your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,  And a courteous ,  and a kind ,  and a handsome; And ,  I guarantee ,  a virtuous gentleman Where is your mother ? 
where is my mother ? 	where is my mother ? 
why ,  she is within . 	why ,  she’s inside . 
where should she be ? 	where should she be ? 
how oddly thou reply'st ! 	how oddly you reply ! 
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,   “ Where is your mother ?  ” ’ O God's Lady dear ! 	your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,   ” Where is your mother ?  ”  O God's lady dear ! 
are you so hot ? 	are you so hot ? 
henceforward do your messages yourself . 	from this time forward ,  do your messages yourself . 
here's such a coil ! 	here's such a choice ! 
come ,  what says Romeo ? 	come ,  what does Romeo say ? 
have you got leave to go to shrift to - day ? 	have you got permission to go to confession today ? 
I have . 	I have . 
then hie you hence to Friar Laurence’ cell; There stays a husband to make you a wife . 	then go quickly to Friar Lawrence' cell; A husband waits there to make you a wife . 
now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks: They'll be in scarlet straight at any news . 	now comes the lusty blood up in your cheeks ,  They'll be bright red instantly at any news . 
hie you to church; I must another way ,  To fetch a ladder ,  by the which your love Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark . 	go quickly to church; I must go another way ,  To fetch a ladder ,  by the which your love Must climb to a bird's nest soon ,  when it is dark . 
I am the drudge ,  and toil in your delight; But you shall bear the burden soon at night . 	I am the slave and worker in your delight; But you shall bear the burden soon at night . 
go; I'll to dinner; hie you to the cell . 	go on; I'll go to dinner; go quickly to the cell . 
hie to high fortune ! 	go quickly to high fortune ! 
honest nurse ,  farewell . 	honest nurse ,  farewell . 
can I go forward when my heart is here ? 	can I go home when my heart is here ? 
turn back ,  dull earth ,  and find thy centre out . 	turn back ,  dull earth ,  and find out where your center is . 
romeo ! 	romeo ! 
he is wise ,  And ,  on my life ,  hath stol'n him home to bed . 	he is wise; And ,  on my life ,  he has stolen home to bed . 
he ran this way ,  and leapt this orchard wall . 	he ran this way ,  and leaped over this orchard wall . 
call ,  good Mercutio . 	call him ,  good Mercutio . 
nay ,  I'll conjure too . 	no ,  I'll conjure him up too . 
romeo ! 	romeo ! 
humours ! 	humors ! 
madman ! 	madman ! 
passion ! 	passion ! 
lover ! 	lover ! 
appear thou in the likeness of a sigh; Speak but one rhyme ,  and I am satisfied ! 	appear in the likeness of a sigh . 
cry but ‘Ay me ! ’ pronounce but ‘love’ and ‘dove’; Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word ,  One nickname for her purblind son and heir ,  Young Adam Cupid ,  he that shot so trim When King Cophetua lov'd the beggar maid ! 	speak but one rhyme ,  and I am satisfied; Cry but  “ Ah me !  ”  Pronounce but  “ love ”  and  “ dove; ”  Speak one fair word to my godmother Venus ,  One nickname for her almost blind son and heir ,  Young auburn Cupid ,  he that shot the arrow so well When King Cophetua loved the beggar - maid ! 
he heareth not ,  he stirreth not ,  be moveth not; The ape is dead ,  and I must conjure him . 	he doesn’t hear ,  he doesn’t make noise ,  he doesn’t move; The fool is dead ,  and I must conjure him up ! 
an if he hear thee ,  thou wilt anger him . 	If he hears you ,  you will make him angry . 
this cannot anger him . 	this cannot anger him . 
twould anger him To raise a spirit in his mistress’ circle Of some strange nature ,  letting it there stand Till she had laid it and conjur'd it down . 	It would anger him To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle ,  Of some strange nature ,  letting it stand there Until she had laid it down ,  and conjured it down . 
that were some spite; my invocation Is fair and honest: in his mistress’ name ,  I conjure only but to raise up him . 	my invocation Is fair and honest ,  and ,  in his mistress' name ,  I only conjure him to raise up him . 
come ,  he hath hid himself among these trees To be consorted with the humorous night . 	come ,  he has hidden himself among these trees ,  To have a sexual liaison with the moody night . 
blind is his love and best befits the dark . 	his love is blind and it suits the dark best . 
If love be blind ,  love cannot hit the mark . 	If love is blind ,  love can’t find the spot . 
now will he sit under a medlar tree And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit As maids call medlars when they laugh alone . 	now he’ll sit under a medlar tree ,  And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit As maids call medlars when they laugh alone . 
romeo ,  good night . 	romeo ,  good night . 
I'll to my truckle - bed; This field - bed is too cold for me to sleep . 	I'm going to my pull - out bed; This field - bed is too cold for me to sleep in . 
come ,  shall we go ? 	come on ,  shall we go ? 
go then ,  for 'tis in vain ‘To seek him here that means not to be found . 	go then; for it’s useless To look for him here when he intends not to be found . 
he jests at scars that never felt a wound . 	he laughs at the scars of love when he’s never felt love’s pain . 
but soft ! 	quiet ! 
what light through yonder window breaks ? 	what light breaks through that window ? 
It is the East ,  and Juliet is the sun ! 	It is the east ,  and Juliet is the sun rising ! 
arise ,  fair sun ,  and kill the envious moon ,  Who is already sick and pale with grief That thou her maid art far more fair than she . 	arise ,  fair sun ,  and kill the jealous moon ,  Who is already sick and pale with grief ,  That you ,  her maid ,  are far more beautiful than she is . 
be not her maid ,  since she is envious . 	don’t be her maid ,  since she is so jealous . 
her vestal livery is but sick and green ,  And none but fools do wear it . 	her chaste ,  white gown is only sick and green ,  And only fools wear it . 
cast it off . 	take it off and throw it away . 
It is my lady; O ,  it is my love ! 	It is my lady; O ,  it is my love ! 
o that she knew she were ! 	o ,  I wish she knew that she was my love ! 
she speaks ,  yet she says nothing . 	she speaks ,  but she says nothing . 
what of that ? 	what does that mean ? 
I am too bold; 'tis not to me she speaks . 	I am too bold ,  she’s not speaking to me . 
two of the fairest stars in all the heaven ,  Having some business ,  do entreat her eyes To twinkle in their spheres till they return . 	two of the fairest stars in all the heaven ,  Having some business ,  do beg her eyes To twinkle in their sockets till the stars return . 
what if her eyes were there ,  they in her head ? 	what if her eyes were there ,  they in her head ? 
the brightness of her cheek would shame those stars As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven Would through the airy region stream so bright That birds would sing and think it were not night . 	the brightness of her cheek would shame those stars ,  As daylight shames a lamp; her eyes in heaven Would stream so brightly through the skies That birds would sing and think it was morning . 
see how she leans her cheek upon her hand ! 	see how she leans her cheek upon her hand ! 
o that I were a glove upon that hand ,  That I might touch that cheek ! 	o I wish I were a glove on that hand So that I might touch that cheek ! 
ay me ! 	ah me ! 
she speaks . 	she speaks . 
o ,  speak again ,  bright angel ! 	o ,  speak again ,  bright angel ! 
for thou art As glorious to this night ,  being o'er my head ,  As is a winged messenger of heaven Unto the white - upturned wond'ring eyes Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him When he bestrides the lazy - pacing clouds And sails upon the bosom of the air . 	for you are As glorious to this night ,  that is over my head ,  As is a wingéd messenger of heaven To the white ,  upturned ,  wondering eyes Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him When he crosses the slow moving clouds And sails upon the heart of the wind . 
o Romeo ,  Romeo ! 	o Romeo ,  Romeo ! 
shall I hear more ,  or shall I speak at this ? 	shall I hear more ,  or shall I speak at this ? 
o ,  be some other name ! 	o ,  be some other name ! 
what's in a name ? 	what's in a name ? 
that which we call a rose By any other name would smell as sweet . 	that which we call a rose Would smell as sweet if it had any other name . 
so Romeo would ,  were he not Romeo call'd ,  Retain that dear perfection which he owes Without that title . 	so Romeo ,  if he wasn’t called  “ Romeo ,  ”  would Retain that dear perfection which he has Without that title . 
romeo ,  doff thy name; And for that name ,  which is no part of thee ,  Take all myself . 	romeo ,  throw your name away; And for that name ,  which isn’t part of you ,  Take all of me . 
I take thee at thy word . 	I take you at your word . 
call me but love ,  and I'll be new baptiz'd; Henceforth I never will be Romeo . 	only call me  “ love ,  ”  and I'll be baptized with a new name . 
what man art thou that ,  thus bescreen'd in night ,  So stumblest on my counsel ? 	from now on ,  I’ll never be  “ Romeo .  ”  What man are you who ,  wrapped in the cover of night ,  Stumbles on my private thoughts ? 
by a name I know not how to tell thee who I am . 	by a name that I don’t know how to tell you who I am . 
my name ,  dear saint ,  is hateful to myself ,  Because it is an enemy to thee . 	my name ,  dear saint ,  is hateful to me Because it is an enemy to you . 
had I it written ,  I would tear the word . 	If I had written it down on paper ,  I would tear the word from the page . 
my ears have yet not drunk a hundred words Of that tongue's utterance ,  yet I know the sound . 	my ears haven’t yet heard a hundred words Of that tongue's speech ,  and yet I know the sound; Aren’t you Romeo ,  and a Montague ? 
how cam'st thou hither ,  tell me ,  and wherefore ? 	how did you come here ,  tell me ,  and why ? 
If they do see thee ,  they will murder thee . 	If they see you ,  they will murder you . 
alack ,  there lies more peril in thine eye Than twenty of their swords ! 	It’s a shame ,  there is more danger in your eye Than twenty of their swords . 
look thou but sweet ,  And I am proof against their enmity . 	if you will just look sweet ,  Then I am protected against their hate . 
I would not for the world they saw thee here . 	I wouldn’t have them see you here for the world . 
I have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes; And but thou love me ,  let them find me here . 	I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight; And ,  if you love me ,  let them find me here . 
my life were better ended by their hate Than death prorogued ,  wanting of thy love . 	my life were better ended by their hate Than death postponed ,  wanting your love . 
by whose direction found'st thou out this place ? 	who gave you the directions to this place ? 
I am no pilot; yet ,  wert thou as far As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea ,  I would adventure for such merchandise . 	I am no sea captain ,  but ,  if you were as far away As that vast shore washed with the furthest sea ,  I would risk everything for such a cargo . 
thou knowest the mask of night is on my face; Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek For that which thou hast heard me speak to - night . 	you know that the night hides my face; Otherwise ,  a maiden’s blush would paint my cheek For what you overheard me say tonight . 
fain would I dwell on form ,  fain ,  fain deny What I have spoke; but farewell complement ! 	gladly I would dwell on form ,  gladly ,  gladly deny What I have spoken; but farewell polite words ! 
dost thou love me ? 	do you love me ? 
I know thou wilt say ‘Ay’; And I will take thy word . 	I know you will say ,   “ Yes ,  ”  And I will take your word . 
yet ,  if thou swear'st ,  Thou mayst prove false . 	but ,  if you swear ,  You may prove false . 
at lovers’ perjuries ,  They say Jove laughs . 	at lovers' lies ,  They say Jove laughs . 
o gentle Romeo ,  If thou dost love ,  pronounce it faithfully . 	o gentle Romeo ,  If you do love ,  pronounce it faithfully . 
I should have been more strange ,  I must confess ,  But that thou overheard'st ,  ere I was ware ,  My true love's passion . 	I should have been more unfriendly ,  I must confess ,  But you overheard ,  before I was aware of you ,  My true love’s passion . 
therefore pardon me ,  And not impute this yielding to light love ,  Which the dark night hath so discovered . 	therefore ,  pardon me ,  And not attribute this surrender to light love ,  Which the dark night has discovered . 
lady ,  by yonder blessed moon I swear ,  That tips with silver all these fruit - tree tops— O ,  swear not by the moon ,  the inconstant moon ,  That monthly changes in her circled orb ,  Lest that thy love prove likewise variable . 	lady ,  by the blessed moon up there ,  That tips with silver all these fruit - tree tops ,  I swear O ,  don’t swear by the moon ,  the inconstant moon ,  That monthly goes through changes in her circled orbit ,  For fear that your love prove as variable as the moon . 
what shall I swear by ? 	what shall I swear by ? 
do not swear at all; Or if thou wilt ,  swear by thy gracious self ,  Which is the god of my idolatry ,  And I'll believe thee . 	don’t swear at all; Or if you will ,  swear by your own gracious self ,  Which is the god that I worship ,  And I'll believe you . 
If my heart's dear love— Well ,  do not swear . 	If my heart's dear love ,  Well ,  don’t swear . 
this bud of love ,  by summer's ripening breath ,  May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet . 	this bud of love ,  ripen by summer's breezes ,  May become a beautiful flower when next we meet . 
good night ,  good night ! 	good night ,  good night ! 
as sweet repose and rest Come to thy heart as that within my breast ! 	may sweet repose and rest Come to your heart such as that is within my breast ! 
o ,  wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied ? 	o ,  will you leave me so unsatisfied ? 
what satisfaction canst thou have to - night ? 	what satisfaction can you have tonight ? 
th’ exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine . 	the exchange of your love's faithful vow for mine . 
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it; And yet I would it were to give again . 	I gave you my vow before you asked for it ,  And yet ,  I wish I could give it again . 
would'st thou withdraw it ? 	would you take it away ? 
for what purpose ,  love ? 	why ,  love ? 
but to be frank ,  and give it thee again . 	only to be honest and give it to you again . 
and yet I wish but for the thing I have . 	and still I wish but for the thing that I already have . 
my bounty is as boundless as the sea ,  My love as deep; the more I give to thee ,  The more I have ,  for both are infinite . 	my treasure has no boundaries ,  just like the sea ,  My love is as deep as the sea; the more I give to you ,  The more I have ,  for both my love and the sea are infinite . 
I hear some noise within . 	I hear some noise within . 
dear love ,  adieu ! 	dear love ,  goodbye ! 
anon ,  good nurse ! 	right away ,  good nurse ! 
sweet Montague ,  be true . 	sweet Montague ,  be true . 
stay but a little ,  I will come again . 	stay here a minute . 
o blessed ,  blessed night ! 	o blessed ,  blessed night ! 
I am afeard ,  Being in night ,  all this is but a dream ,  Too flattering - sweet to be substantial . 	I am afraid ,  Standing in this night ,  that all this is only a dream ,  Too promising and sweet to be real . 
three words ,  dear Romeo ,  and good night indeed . 	three words ,  dear Romeo ,  and good night indeed . 
If that thy bent of love be honourable ,  Thy purpose marriage ,  send me word to - morrow ,  By one that I'll procure to come to thee ,  Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite; And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay And follow thee my lord throughout the world . 	If that your love is honorable ,  Your intention marriage ,  send me word tomorrow ,  By one that I'll get to come to you ,  Where and what time you will marry me ,  And I’ll lay all my fortunes at your feet ,  And follow you ,  my lord ,  throughout the world . 
madam ! 	madam ! 
I come ,  anon . —But if thou meanest not well ,  I do beseech thee— Madam ! 	but if you don’t mean well ,  I beg you ,  Madam ! 
by - and - by ,  I come . — To cease thy suit and leave me to my grief . 	I’m coming To end your pursuit of me and leave me to my grief . 
to - morrow will I send . 	I’ll send tomorrow . 
so thrive my soul— A thousand times good night ! 	I’ll be waiting ,  A thousand times good night ! 
a thousand times the worse ,  to want thy light ! 	a thousand times the worse for me ,  to want your light ! 
love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books; But love from love ,  towards school with heavy looks . 	love goes toward love as schoolboy away from their books; But love goes from love ,  like boys towards school with heavy looks . 
romeo ,  hist ! 	listen ,  Romeo ,  listen ! 
o for a falconer's voice To lure this tassel - gentle back again ! 	o I wish I had a falconer's voice To lure this hawk back to me again ! 
bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud; Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies ,  And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine With repetition of my Romeo's name . 	being a slave has a hoarse voice and may not speak aloud; Or else I would go to the cave where Echo lives ,  And make her airy voice more hoarse than mine is ,  With the repetition of my Romeo's name . 
It is my soul that calls upon my name . 	It is my soul that calls my name . 
how silver - sweet sound lovers’ tongues by night ,  Like softest music to attending ears ! 	how silver - sweet is the sound of lovers' voices by night ,  Like softest music to listening ears ! 
romeo ! 	romeo ! 
my dear ? 	my dear ? 
what o'clock to - morrow Shall I send to thee ? 	what time tomorrow Should I send someone to you ? 
by the hour of nine . 	at nine . 
I will not fail . 	I will not fail ! 
tis twenty years till then . 	It’s going feel like twenty years until then . 
I have forgot why I did call thee back . 	I have forgotten why I called you back . 
let me stand here till thou remember it . 	let me stand here until you remember . 
I shall forget ,  to have thee still stand there ,  Remembering how I love thy company . 	I shall forget just to have you stand there ,  Remembering how I love your company . 
and I'll still stay ,  to have thee still forget ,  Forgetting any other home but this . 	and I'll still stay ,  to have you still forget ,  Forgetting any other home but this one . 
I would I were thy bird . 	I wish I were your bird . 
sweet ,  so would I . 	sweet ,  so do I . 
yet I should kill thee with much cherishing . 	but I should kill you with much cherishing . 
good night ,  good night ! 	good night ,  good night ! 
parting is such sweet sorrow ,  That I shall say good night till it be morrow . 	parting is such sweet sorrow That I shall say good night until it’s tomorrow . 
sleep dwell upon thine eyes ,  peace in thy breast ! 	sleep dwell upon your eyes ,  peace in your breast ! 
would I were sleep and peace ,  so sweet to rest ! 	I wish I were sleep and peace ,  so sweet to rest ! 
hence will I to my ghostly father's cell ,  His help to crave and my dear hap to tell . 	I will go right away to my ghostly priest's house ,  To get his help and to tell him about my dear good fortune . 
the grey - ey'd morn smiles on the frowning night ,  Check'ring the Eastern clouds with streaks of light; And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels . 	the grey - eyed morning smiles on the frowning night ,  Cutting the eastern clouds into squares with streaks of light; And the flecked darkness reels like a drunkard From the day's path and the sun’s hot rays . 
now ,  ere the sun advance his burning eye The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry ,  I must up - fill this osier cage of ours With baleful weeds and precious - juiced flowers . 	no ,  before the sun advances his burning eye ,  To cheer the day and to dry night's dank dew ,  I must fill up this ,  our cage made of reeds With baleful weeds and precious - juiced flowers . 
the earth that's nature's mother is her tomb . 	the earth ,  that is ,  nature's mother ,  is nature’s tomb . 
what is her burying grave ,  that is her womb; And from her womb children of divers kind We sucking on her natural bosom find; Many for many virtues excellent ,  None but for some ,  and yet all different . 	the grave where she’s buried ,  that is also her womb ,  And ,  from her womb ,  we find children of diverse kinds When we are sucking on her natural bosom; Many plants are excellent for many virtues ,  Some have none ,  others have some ,  but are all different . 
virtue itself turns vice ,  being misapplied ,  And vice sometime's by action dignified . 	virtue itself can turn to vice ,  if it is misapplied; And vice is sometimes dignified by action . 
two such opposed kings encamp them still In man as well as herbs—grace and rude will; And where the worser is predominant ,  Full soon the canker death eats up that plant . 	two such opposed kings set up camp In man ,  as well as in herbs ,  grace and rude will; And where the worse human trait is predominant ,  The canker death eats up that plant very soon . 
good morrow ,  father . 	good morning ,  father ! 
benedicite ! 	bless you ! 
what early tongue so sweet saluteth me ? 	what early tongue so sweetly salutes me ? 
young son ,  it argues a distempered head So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed . 	young son ,  it is arguably a distempered head that Bids good morning so soon to your bed . 
care keeps his watch in every old man's eye ,  And where care lodges sleep will never lie; But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain Doth couch his limbs ,  there golden sleep doth reign . 	care keeps his watch in every old man's eye ,  And ,  where care lodges ,  sleep will never lie; But where a perfect youth with an empty brain Rests his limbs ,  golden sleep reigns there . 
therefore thy earliness doth me assure Thou art uprous'd with some distemp'rature; Or if not so ,  then here I hit it right— Our Romeo hath not been in bed to - night . 	therefore your earliness assures me that You are aroused by some disturbance in your mind; Or if that’s not it ,  then I guess right ,  Our Romeo has not been in bed tonight . 
that last is true—the sweeter rest was mine . 	that last part is true; my rest was the sweeter . 
god pardon sin ! 	god pardon sin ! 
wast thou with Rosaline ? 	were you with Rosaline ? 
with Rosaline ,  my ghostly father ? 	with Rosaline ,  my ghostly father ? 
no . 	no ! 
I have forgot that name ,  and that name's woe . 	I have forgotten that name ,  and that name's pain . 
I'll tell thee ere thou ask it me again . 	I'll tell you before you ask me again . 
I have been feasting with mine enemy ,  Where on a sudden one hath wounded me That's by me wounded . 	I have been feasting with my enemy; Where ,  all of a sudden ,  one has wounded me That's by me also wounded . 
holy Saint Francis ! 	holy Saint Francis ! 
what a change is here ! 	what a change this is ! 
Is Rosaline ,  that thou didst love so dear ,  So soon forsaken ? 	Is Rosaline ,  who you did love so dearly ,  So soon forsaken ? 
young men's love then lies Not truly in their hearts ,  but in their eyes . 	young men's love ,  then ,  lies Not truly in their hearts ,  but in their eyes . 
how much salt water thrown away in waste ,  To season love ,  that of it doth not taste ! 	how much salt water was thrown away in waste ,  To season love ,  that did not taste love ! 
If e'er thou wast thyself ,  and these woes thine ,  Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline . 	If ever you were yourself ,  and these woes yours ,  You and these woes were all for Rosaline . 
and art thou chang'd ? 	and are you changed ? 
pronounce this sentence then: Women may fall when there's no strength in men . 	pronounce this sentence then Women may fall when there's no strength in men . 
thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline . 	you often scolded me for loving Rosaline . 
for doting ,  not for loving ,  pupil mine . 	for doting ,  not for loving ,  my pupil . 
and bad'st me bury love . 	and you told me bury love . 
not in a grave To lay one in ,  another out to have . 	not in a grave To lay one in ,  and take another out . 
I pray thee chide not . 	please don’t scold me . 
she whom I love now Doth grace for grace and love for love allow . 	she whom I love now Has grace for grace and love for love allowed . 
the other did not so . 	the other one didn’t . 
but come ,  young waverer ,  come go with me . 	but come ,  young waverer ,  come go with me . 
wisely ,  and slow . 	wisely ,  and slowly . 
they stumble that run fast . 	they stumble that run fast . 
where the devil should this Romeo be ? 	where the devil can this Romeo be ? 
came he not home to - night ? 	didn’t he come home tonight ? 
why ,  that same pale hard - hearted wench ,  that Rosaline ,  torments him so that he will sure run mad . 	ah ,  that same pale hard - hearted wench ,  that Rosaline ,  Torments him so that he will sure run mad . 
tybalt ,  the kinsman to old Capulet ,  Hath sent a letter to his father's house . 	tybalt ,  the kinsman to old Capulet ,  Has sent a letter to his father's house . 
a challenge ,  on my life . 	a challenge ,  on my life . 
romeo will answer it . 	romeo will answer it . 
any man that can write may answer a letter . 	any man that can write may answer a letter . 
nay ,  he will answer the letter's master ,  how he dares ,  being dared . 	no ,  he will answer the letter's writer ,  how he dares being dared . 
alas ,  poor Romeo ,  he is already dead ! 	poor Romeo ,  he is already dead ! 
why ,  what is Tybalt ? 	why ,  what is Tybalt ? 
more than Prince of Cats ,  I can tell you . 	more than Prince of Cats ,  I can tell you . 
o ,  he's the courageous captain of compliments . 	o ,  he's the courageous captain of compliments . 
he fights as you sing pricksong ,  keeps time ,  distance ,  and proportion; rests me his minim rest ,  one ,  two ,  and the third in your bosom ! 	he fights as you sing prick - song keeps time ,  distance ,  and proportion; rests his minimum rest . 
ah ,  the immortal passado ! 	ah ,  the immortal forward thrust ! 
the punto reverso ! 	the back - handed thrust ! 
the hai ! 	the hay . 
the what ? 	the what ? 
the pox of such antic ,  lisping ,  affecting fantasticoes—these new tuners of accent ! 	the pox of such antic ,  lisping ,  affecting absurd and irrational people; these new tuners of accents ! 
by Jesu ,  a very good blade ! 	by Jesus ,  a very good blade ! 
a very tall man ! 	a very tall man ! 
o ,  their bones ,  their bones ! 	o ,  their bones ,  their bones ! 
without his roe ,  like a dried herring . 	without his fish eggs ,  like a dried herring . 
o flesh ,  flesh ,  how art thou fishified ! 	o flesh ,  flesh ,  how are you fishified ! 
now is he for the numbers that Petrarch flowed in . 	now he is for the numbers that Petrarch flowed in ! 
there's a French salutation to your French slop . 	there's a French salutation to your French slop . 
you gave us the counterfeit fairly last night . 	you gave us a good false impression last night . 
good morrow to you both . 	good morning to you both . 
what counterfeit did I give you ? 	what false impression did I give you ? 
that's as much as to say ,  such a case as yours constrains a man to bow in the hams . 	that's as much as to say ,  such a case as yours constrains a man to bend his legs . 
meaning ,  to curtsy . 	meaning ,  to good manners ? 
thou hast most kindly hit it . 	thou hast most kindly hit it . 
a most courteous exposition . 	a most courteous exposition . 
nay ,  I am the very pink of courtesy . 	no ,  I am the very small spot of courtesy . 
pink for flower . 	pink for flower . 
right . 	right . 
why ,  then is my pump well - flower'd . 	why ,  then my shoe is well - flowered . 
well said ! 	well said . 
follow me this jest now till thou hast worn out thy pump ,  that ,  when the single sole of it is worn ,  the jest may remain ,  after the wearing ,  solely singular . 	follow me in this joke now until you have worn out your shoe; that ,  when the single sole of it is worn ,  the joke may remain ,  after the wearing ,  sole singular . 
o single - sold jest ,  solely singular for the singleness ! 	o single - soled joke ,  only singular for the singleness ! 
or I'll cry a match . 	at full speed ,  at full speed; or I'll cry a match . 
nay ,  if our wits run the wild - goose chase ,  I am done; for thou hast more of the wild goose in one of thy wits than ,  I am sure ,  I have in my whole five . 	no ,  if your wits run the wild - goose chase ,  I’m done ,  because you have more of the wild - goose in one of your wits than ,  I am sure ,  I have in my whole five . 
was I with you there for the goose ? 	was I with you there for the goose ? 
thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the goose . 	you were never with me for anything when you were not there for the goose . 
I will bite thee by the ear for that jest . 	I will bite you on the ear for that joke ! 
nay ,  good goose ,  bite not ! 	no ,  good goose ,  don’t bite . 
thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most sharp sauce . 	your wit is a very bitter sweetness; it is a most sharp sauce . 
and is it not ,  then ,  well serv'd in to a sweet goose ? 	and isn’t ,  then ,  well served with a sweet goose ? 
o ,  here's a wit of cheverel ,  that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad ! 	o ,  here's a wit of kid leather ,  that stretches from an inch narrow to 45 inches wide ! 
I stretch it out for that word ‘broad , ’ which ,  added to the goose ,  proves thee far and wide a broad goose . 	I stretch it out for that word  “ broad ,  ”  which added to the goose ,  proves you far and wide a broad goose . 
why ,  is not this better now than groaning for love ? 	why ,  isn’t this better now than groaning for love ? 
now art thou sociable ,  now art thou Romeo; now art thou what thou art ,  by art as well as by nature . 	now ,  you’re sociable; now you’re Romeo; now you are what you are ,  by art as well as by nature . 
for this drivelling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole . 	for this idiotic love is like a great natural fool that runs lolling up and down to hide his toy in a hole . 
stop there ,  stop there ! 	stop there ,  stop there . 
thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair . 	you want me to stop in my tale against the hair . 
thou wouldst else have made thy tale large . 	otherwise ,  you would have made your tale large . 
here's goodly gear ! 	here's some good stuff ! 
a sail ,  a sail ! 	a sail ,  a sail ,  a sail ! 
peter ! 	peter ! 
anon . 	right away . 
my fan ,  Peter . 	my fan ,  Peter . 
good Peter ,  to hide her face; for her fan's the fairer face of the two . 	good Peter ,  to hide her face ,  for her fan has the fairer face . 
god ye good morrow ,  gentlemen . 	good morning ,  gentlemen . 
god ye good - den ,  fair gentlewoman . 	good evening ,  fair gentlewoman . 
Is it good - den ? 	Is it good evening ? 
tis no less ,  I tell ye; for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon . 	It’s no less ,  I tell you ,  for the bawdy hand of the clock is now upon the prick of noon . 
out upon you ! 	shame on you ! 
what a man are you ! 	what kind of a man are you ! 
one ,  gentlewoman ,  that God hath made for himself to mar . 	one ,  gentlewoman ,  that God has made for himself to damage . 
gentlemen ,  can any of you tell me where I may find the young Romeo ? 	gentlemen ,  can any of you tell me where I may find the young Romeo ? 
I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him . 	I can tell you ,  but  “ young ”  Romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you asked for him . 
I am the youngest of that name ,  for fault of a worse . 	I am the youngest of that name ,  for fault of a worse name . 
you say well . 	you say well . 
yea ,  is the worst well ? 	yeah ,  is the worst well ? 
If you be he ,  sir ,  I desire some confidence with you . 	If you be he ,  sir ,  I desire some confidence with you . 
she will indite him to some supper . 	she will give him a written invitation to some supper . 
a bawd ,  a bawd ,  a bawd ! 	a hare ,  a hare ,  a hare ! 
so ho ! 	so ho ! 
what hast thou found ? 	what have you found ? 
an old hare hoar ,  And an old hare hoar ,  Is very good meat in Lent; But a hare that is hoar Is too much for a score When it hoars ere it be spent . 	an old gray hare ,  And an old gray hare ,  Is very good meat in Lent; But a hare that is gray Is too much to be billed When it ages before it used up . 
romeo ,  will you come to your father's ? 	romeo ,  will you come to your father's ? 
we'll to dinner thither . 	we'll have dinner there . 
I will follow you . 	I will follow you . 
marry ,  farewell ! 	by Mary ,  farewell ! 
I pray you ,  sir ,  what saucy merchant was this that was so full of his ropery ? 	please ,  sir ,  what rude salesman was this that was so full of his own trickery ? 
a gentleman ,  nurse ,  that loves to hear himself talk and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month . 	a gentleman ,  nurse ,  that loves to hear himself talk ,  and will speak more in a minute than you think should do for a month . 
an’ a speak anything against me ,  I'll take him down ,  an’ a were lustier than he is ,  and twenty such jacks; and if I cannot ,  I'll find those that shall . 	If he speaks anything against me ,  I'll take him down ,  even if he were lustier than he is ,  and twenty such Jacks; and if I cannot ,  I'll find those that shall . 
scurvy knave ! 	scurvy knave ! 
and thou must stand by too ,  and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure ! 	and you just stand by too ,  and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure ! 
I dare draw as soon as another man ,  if I see occasion in a good quarrel ,  and the law on my side . 	I would draw as soon as another man ,  if I see occasion in a good quarrel ,  and the law on my side . 
now ,  afore God ,  I am so vexed that every part about me quivers . 	now ,  before God ,  I am so annoyed that every part about me quivers . 
scurvy knave ! 	scurvy knave ! 
nurse ,  commend me to thy lady and mistress . 	nurse ,  commend me to your lady and mistress . 
I pro -  test unto thee— Good heart ,  and i’ faith I will tell her as much . 	I must protest your comments Good heart ,  and in faith I will tell her as much . 
what wilt thou tell her ,  nurse ? 	what will you tell her ,  nurse ? 
thou dost not mark me . 	you don’t understand me . 
bid her devise some means to come to shrift This afternoon; And there she shall at Friar Laurence’ cell Be shriv'd and married . 	bid her devise some means to come to confession This afternoon; And there she shall ,  at Friar Lawrence' cell ,  Make her confession and married . 
here is for thy pains . 	here is something for your pains . 
no ,  truly ,  sir; not a penny . 	no ,  truly ,  sir; not a penny . 
this afternoon ,  sir ? 	this afternoon ,  sir ? 
well ,  she shall be there . 	well ,  she’ll be there . 
and stay ,  good nurse ,  behind the abbey wall . 	and wait ,  good nurse ,  behind the abbey wall . 
within this hour my man shall be with thee And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair ,  Which to the high topgallant of my joy Must be my convoy in the secret night . 	within this hour ,  my man shall be with you ,  And bring you a rope ladder; Which must be my way to the highest point Of my joy in the secret night . 
now God in heaven bless thee ! 	now God in heaven bless you ! 
hark you ,  sir . 	listen ,  sir . 
what say'st thou ,  my dear nurse ? 	what did you say ,  my dear nurse ? 
Is your man secret ? 	can your man keep a secret ? 
did you ne'er hear say ,  Two may keep counsel ,  putting one away ? 	have you never heard the saying ,  Two may keep counsel ,  putting the other one away ? 
I warrant thee my man's as true as steel . 	I guarantee you ,  my man is as true as steel . 
well ,  sir ,  my mistress is the sweetest lady . 	well ,  sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady . 
lord ,  Lord ! 	lord ,  Lord ! 
when 'twas a little prating thing—O ,  there is a nobleman in town ,  one Paris ,  that would fain lay knife aboard; but she ,  good soul ,  had as lieve see a toad ,  a very toad ,  as see him . 	when she was a little chatterbox ,  O ,  there's a nobleman in town ,  one Paris ,  that would gladly like her attention; but she ,  good soul ,  would rather see a toad ,  a very toad ,  than to see him . 
I anger her sometimes ,  and tell her that Paris is the properer man; but I'll warrant you ,  when I say so ,  she looks as pale as any clout in the versal world . 	I anger her sometimes ,  and tell her that Paris is the more proper man; but I'll guarantee you ,  when I say so ,  she looks as pale as any linen in the whole ,  wide world . 
doth not rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter ? 	doesn’t  “ rosemary ”  and  “ Romeo ”  begin with the same letter ? 
ay ,  nurse; what of that ? 	yes ,  nurse; what of that ? 
both with an R .  Ah ,  mocker ! 	both begin with an R .  Ah ,  joker ! 
that's the dog's name . 	that's the dog's name . 
commend me to thy lady . 	commend me to your lady . 
ay ,  a thousand times . 	yes ,  a thousand times . 
exit Romeo . 	exit Romeo . 
anon . 	yes ? 
peter ,  take my fan ,  and go before ,  and apace . 	peter ,  take my fan ,  and go before me . 
so smile the heavens upon this holy act That after - hours with sorrow chide us not ! 	so the heavens smile upon this holy act That after - hours will not scold us with sorrow ! 
amen ,  amen ! 	amen ,  amen ! 
but come what sorrow can ,  It cannot countervail the exchange of joy That one short minute gives me in her sight . 	but whatever sorrow can come ,  It cannot equal the exchange of joy That one short minute in her sight gives me . 
do thou but close our hands with holy words ,  Then love - devouring death do what he dare— It is enough I may but call her mine . 	you only have to close our hands with holy words ,  Then love - devouring death can do whatever he dares It is enough that I may call her mine . 
these violent delights have violent ends And in their triumph die ,  like fire and powder ,  Which ,  as they kiss ,  consume . 	these violent delights have violent ends ,  And in their triumph die ,  like fire and powder ,  Which ,  as they kiss ,  consume each other . 
the sweetest honey Is loathsome in his own deliciousness And in the taste confounds the appetite . 	the sweetest honey Is loathsome in its own deliciousness ,  And in the taste destroys the appetite . 
here comes the Lady . 	here comes the lady . 
o ,  so light a foot Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint . 	o ,  so light a foot Will never wear out the everlasting sharpening stone . 
good even to my ghostly confessor . 	good evening to my ghostly confessor . 
romeo shall thank thee ,  daughter ,  for us both . 	romeo shall thank you ,  daughter ,  for us both . 
as much to him ,  else is his thanks too much . 	as much to him ,  otherwise his thanks is too much . 
ah ,  Juliet ,  if the measure of thy joy Be heap'd like mine ,  and that thy skill be more To blazon it ,  then sweeten with thy breath This neighbour air ,  and let rich music's tongue Unfold the imagin'd happiness that both Receive in either by this dear encounter . 	ah ,  Juliet ,  if the amount of your joy Is heaped up like mine ,  and that your sense of right be more To adorn it with ,  then sweeten this neighboring air With your breath ,  and let rich music's language Reveal the imagined happiness that we both Receive in this dear meeting . 
come ,  come with me ,  and we will make short work; For ,  by your leaves ,  you shall not stay alone Till Holy Church incorporate two in one . 	come ,  come with me ,  and we will be quick ,  Because ,  by your permission ,  you shall not stay alone Until holy church incorporates the two of you into one . 
I pray thee ,  good Mercutio ,  let's retire . 	please ,  good Mercutio ,  let's go home . 
thou art like one of these fellows that ,  when he enters the confines of a tavern ,  claps me his sword upon the table and says ‘God send me no need of thee ! ’ and by the operation of the second cup draws him on the drawer ,  when indeed there is no need . 	you are like one of these fellows that ,  when he enters the bar ,  throws his sword upon the table ,  and says  ” God ,  I don’t want to use you !  ”  and by the time he’s drunk the second cup draws the sword on the table ,  when ,  indeed ,  there is no need . 
am I like such a fellow ? 	am I like such a fellow ? 
come ,  come ,  thou art as hot a jack in thy mood as any in Italy; and as soon moved to be moody ,  and as soon moody to be moved . 	come on ,  you are as hot as any fellow in your mood as anyone else in Italy; and you are soon moved to be moody ,  and soon moody to be moved . 
and what to ? 	and to what ? 
nay ,  an there were two such ,  we should have none shortly ,  for one would kill the other . 	no ,  if there were two such fellows ,  we should have none shortly ,  because one would kill the other . 
thou ! 	you ! 
why ,  thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast . 	why ,  you will quarrel with a man that has a hair more or a hair less in his beard than you have . 
thy head is as full of quar rels as an egg is full of meat; and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as an egg for quarrelling . 	your head is as full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat; and your head has even been beaten like a rotten egg for quarrelling . 
thou hast quar rell'd with a man for coughing in the street ,  because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun . 	you have quarreled with a man for coughing in the street ,  because he woke up your dog that was asleep in the sun . 
and yet thou wilt tutor me from quarrelling ! 	and yet you will teach me to avoid quarrelling ?  ! 
an I were so apt to quarrel as thou art ,  any man should buy the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter . 	If I were so easy to quarrel as you are ,  any man should buy the inherited estate of my life for an hour and a quarter . 
the fee simple ? 	the inherited estate ! 
o simple ! 	o how honest ! 
by my head ,  here come the Capulets . 	by my head ,  here come the Capulets . 
by my heel ,  I care not . 	by my heel ,  I care not . 
follow me close ,  for I will speak to them . 	follow me close ,  because I will speak to them . 
and but one word with one of us ? 	only one word with one of us ? 
couple it with something; make it a word and a blow . 	couple it with something; make it a word and a blow . 
you shall find me apt enough to that ,  sir ,  an you will give me occasion . 	you shall find me easy enough for that ,  sir ,  if you will give me the opportunity . 
could you not take some occasion without giving ? 	couldn’t you take some opportunity without my giving you one ? 
mercutio ,  thou consortest with Romeo . 	mercutio ,  you hang out with Romeo ,  Hang out ! 
what ,  dost thou make us minstrels ? 	what ,  do you make us musicians ? 
an thou make minstrels of us ,  look to hear nothing but discords . 	If you make us musicians ,  look to hear nothing but noise . 
we talk here in the public haunt of men . 	we’re talking here in a public place . 
well ,  peace be with you ,  sir . 	well ,  peace be with you ,  sir . 
here comes my man . 	here comes my man . 
but I'll be hang'd ,  sir ,  if he wear your livery . 	but I'll be hanged ,  sir ,  if he will put up with your insults . 
marry ,  go before to field ,  he'll be your follower ! 	by Mary ,  go before him to field ,  he'll be your follower . 
your worship in that sense may call him man . 	your honor ,  in that sense ,  may call him a man . 
tybalt ,  the reason that I have to love thee Doth much excuse the appertaining rage To such a greeting . 	tybalt ,  the reason that I have to love you Does excuse very much the rage that is appropriate For such a greeting . 
villain am I none . 	I am not a villain . 
therefore farewell . 	therefore ,  farewell . 
I see thou knowest me not . 	I see that you don’t know me . 
boy ,  this shall not excuse the injuries That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw . 	boy ,  this walking away shall not excuse the injuries That you have done to me; therefore ,  turn and draw your sword . 
o calm ,  dishonourable ,  vile submission ! 	o calm ,  dishonorable ,  vile submission ! 
alla stoccata carries it away . 	to choke carries it away . 
tybalt ,  you ratcatcher ,  will you walk ? 	tybalt ,  you rat - catcher ,  will you walk away ? 
what would'st thou have with me ? 	what would you have with me ? 
will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher by the ears ? 	will you pluck your sword out of its holder by the handle ? 
make haste ,  lest mine be about your ears ere it be out . 	hurry up ,  for fear my sword will be about your ears before you get yours out . 
I am for you . 	I am for you . 
gentle Mercutio ,  put thy rapier up . 	gentle Mercutio ,  put up your sword . 
come ,  sir ,  your passado ! 	come ,  sir ,  your forward thrust . 
gentlemen ,  for shame ! 	gentlemen ,  for shame ! 
forbear this outrage ! 	control this anger ! 
tybalt ,  Mercutio ,  the Prince expressly hath Forbid this bandying in Verona streets . 	tybalt ,  Mercutio ,  the prince has expressly Forbidden this fighting in Verona streets . 
hold ,  Tybalt ! 	hold ,  Tybalt ! 
good Mercutio ! 	good Mercutio ! 
I am sped . 	I am finished . 
Is he gone and hath nothing ? 	Is he gone ,  and he has nothing ? 
what ,  art thou hurt ? 	what ,  are you hurt ? 
where is my page ? 	where is my page ? 
go ,  villain ,  fetch a surgeon . 	go ,  villain ,  get a doctor . 
no ,  'tis not so deep as a well ,  nor so wide as a church door; but 'tis enough ,  'twill serve . 	no ,  it’s not as deep as a well ,  or as wide as a church door; but it’s enough ,  it will do . 
ask for me to - morrow ,  and you shall find me a grave man . 	ask for me tomorrow ,  and you shall find me a grave man . 
I am peppered ,  I warrant ,  for this world . 	I am not long ,  I guarantee ,  for this world . 
a plague o’ both your houses ! 	a plague on both your houses ! 
zounds ,  a dog ,  a rat ,  a mouse ,  a cat ,  to scratch a man to death ! 	a dog ,  a rat ,  a mouse ,  a cat ,  to scratch a man to death ! 
a braggart ,  a rogue ,  a villain ,  that fights by the book of arithmetic ! 	a braggart ,  a rogue ,  a villain ,  that fights by the book of arithmetic ! 
why the devil came you between us ? 	to Romeo] Why the devil did you come between us ? 
I was hurt under your arm . 	I was hurt under your arm . 
I thought all for the best . 	I thought it was all for the best . 
help me into some house ,  Benvolio ,  Or I shall faint . 	help me into some house ,  Benvolio ,  Or I shall faint . 
a plague o’ both your houses ! 	a plague on both your houses ! 
they have made worms’ meat of me . 	they have made meat for the worms out meat of me . 
I have it ,  And soundly too . 	I have had it ,  and soundly too . 
your houses ! 	your houses ! 
that gallant spirit hath aspir’d the clouds ,  Which too untimely here did scorn the earth . 	that gallant spirit has gone into the clouds ,  Which saw an untimely death here on earth . 
here comes the furious Tybalt back again . 	here comes the furious Tybalt back again . 
away to heaven respective lenity ,  And fire - ey'd fury be my conduct now ! 	gentleness ,  go away to heaven ,  And fire - eyed fury be my guide now ! 
now ,  Tybalt ,  take the ‘villain’ back again That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul Is but a little way above our heads ,  Staying for thine to keep him company . 	now ,  Tybalt ,  take back again the word  “ villain ”  That you just gave me; for Mercutio's soul Is only a little way above our heads ,  Waiting for yours to keep him company . 
either thou or I ,  or both ,  must go with him . 	either you or I ,  or both of us ,  must go with him . 
thou ,  wretched boy ,  that didst consort him here ,  Shalt with him hence . 	you ,  wretched boy ,  that hung out with him here ,  Will be with him there . 
this shall determine that . 	this fight shall determine that . 
romeo ,  away ,  be gone ! 	romeo ,  leave ,  be gone ! 
the citizens are up ,  and Tybalt slain . 	the citizens are up ,  and Tybalt is dead . 
stand not amaz'd . 	don’t stand there in shock . 
the Prince will doom thee death If thou art taken . 	the prince will sentence you to death If you are taken prisoner . 
hence ,  be gone ,  away ! 	get going ,  get out of here ,  leave ! 
o ,  I am fortune's fool ! 	o ,  I am fool for the goddess of luck ! 
why dost thou stay ? 	why do you stay ? 
which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio ? 	which way did he who killed Mercutio run ? 
tybalt ,  that murderer ,  which way ran he ? 	tybalt ,  that murderer ,  which way did he run ? 
there lies that Tybalt . 	there lies that same Tybalt . 
where are the vile beginners of this fray ? 	where are the wicked beginners of this fight ? 
there lies the man ,  slain by young Romeo ,  That slew thy kinsman ,  brave Mercutio . 	there lies the man slain by young Romeo ,  That killed your kinsman ,  brave Mercutio . 
tybalt ,  my cousin ! 	tybalt ,  my cousin ! 
o my brother's child ! 	o my brother's child ! 
o Prince ! 	o prince ! 
o husband ! 	o husband ! 
o ,  the blood is spill'd Of my dear kinsman ! 	o ,  the blood of my dear kinsman is spilled ! 
prince ,  as thou art true ,  For blood of ours ,  shed blood of Montague . 	prince ,  as you are true ,  For blood of ours shed blood of Montague . 
o cousin ,  cousin ! 	o cousin ,  cousin ! 
benvolio ,  who began this bloody fray ? 	benvolio ,  who began this bloody fight ? 
tybalt ,  here slain ,  whom Romeo's hand did slay . 	tybalt ,  here killed ,  who was slain by Romeo’s hand . 
romeo ,  that spoke him fair ,  bid him bethink How nice the quarrel was ,  and urg'd withal Your high displeasure . 	romeo spoke nicely to him ,  asked him to consider How silly the quarrel was ,  and in addition ,  advised him of Your high displeasure . 
romeo he cries aloud ,  ‘Hold ,  friends ! 	romeo cries aloud ,   ” Stop ,  friends ! 
this is the truth ,  or let Benvolio die . 	this is the truth ,  or let Benvolio die . 
some twenty of them fought in this black strife ,  And all those twenty could but kill one life . 	some twenty of them fought in this black fight ,  And all those twenty could only take one life . 
I beg for justice ,  which thou ,  Prince ,  must give . 	I beg for justice ,  which you ,  prince ,  must give; Romeo killed Tybalt . 
romeo slew Tybalt; Romeo must not live . 	romeo must not live . 
romeo slew him; he slew Mercutio . 	romeo killed him; he killed Mercutio . 
who now the price of his dear blood doth owe ? 	who now owes the price of his dear blood ? 
not Romeo ,  Prince; he was Mercutio's friend; His fault concludes but what the law should end ,  The life of Tybalt . 	not Romeo ,  prince; he was Mercutio's friend; His mistake finishes only what the law should end ,  The life of Tybalt . 
and for that offence Immediately we do exile him hence . 	and for that offence We immediately exile him from here . 
I have an interest in your hate's proceeding ,  My blood for your rude brawls doth lie ableeding; But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine That you shall all repent the loss of mine . 	I have an interest in your hate's proceeding ,  My blood for your rude brawls lies there bleeding; But I'll punish you with so strong a fine That you shall all repent my loss . 
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses; Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses . 	I will be deaf to pleading and excuses ,  Nor shall tears or prayers buy your way out . 
therefore use none . 	therefore ,  use none . 
let Romeo hence in haste ,  Else ,  when he is found ,  that hour is his last . 	let Romeo go quickly away from here ,  Or else ,  when he is found ,  that hour is his last . 
bear hence this body ,  and attend our will . 	bear this body away ,  and wait for our instructions . 
mercy but murders ,  pardoning those that kill . 	mercy only murders us ,  pardoning those that kill . 
gallop apace ,  you fiery - footed steeds ,  Towards Phoebus’ lodging ! 	gallop quickly ,  you horses with fiery flames for feet ,  Towards the Sun god’s house . 
such a wagoner As Phaeton would whip you to the west And bring in cloudy night immediately . 	such a wagon driver As Phaeton (the son of the Sun god) would whip you to the west And bring in a cloudy night immediately . 
spread thy close curtain ,  love - performing night ,  That runaway eyes may wink ,  and Romeo Leap to these arms untalk'd of and unseen . 	close your curtain ,  love - performing night ,  so That rude eyes may look away ,  and Romeo can Leap to these arms ,  un - talked about and unseen . 
come ,  civil night ,  Thou sober - suited matron ,  all in black ,  And learn me how to lose a winning match ,  Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods . 	come ,  civil night ,  You sober - suited matron ,  all in black ,  And teach me how to lose a winning match ,  Played for a pair of stainless maidens . 
hood my unmann'd blood ,  bating in my cheeks ,  With thy black mantle till strange love ,  grown bold ,  Think true love acted simple modesty . 	conceal my virgin blood ,  fluttering in my cheeks ,  With your black mantle ,  until unknown love ,  grown bold ,  Thinks that true love is an act of simple modesty . 
come ,  gentle night; come ,  loving ,  black - brow'd night; Give me my Romeo; and ,  when he shall die ,  Take him and cut him out in little stars ,  And he will make the face of heaven so fine That all the world will be in love with night And pay no worship to the garish sun . 	come ,  gentle night; come ,  loving ,  black - browed night ,  Give me my Romeo; and ,  when he shall die ,  Take him and cut him out in little stars ,  And he will make the face of heaven so fine That all the world will be in love with night ,  And pay no worship to the glaring sun . 
o ,  I have bought the mansion of a love ,  But not possess'd it; and though I am sold ,  Not yet enjoy'd . 	o ,  I have bought the mansion of a love ,  But I have not moved in ,  and ,  though I am sold ,  I have not yet been enjoyed . 
so tedious is this day As is the night before some festival To an impatient child that hath new robes And may not wear them . 	so boring this day is ,  As the night before some festival is To an impatient child that has new clothes ,  And can’t wear them . 
what hast thou there ? 	what have you got there ? 
the cords That Romeo bid thee fetch ? 	the ropes That Romeo asked you to fetch ? 
ay ,  ay ,  the cords . 	yes ,  yes ,  the ropes . 
ay me ! 	ah me ! 
what news ? 	what news ? 
why dost thou wring thy hands ? 	why are you wringing your hands ? 
ah ,  well - a - day ! 	ah ,  alas ! 
he's dead ,  he's dead ,  he's dead ! 	he's dead ,  he's dead ,  he's dead ! 
we are undone ,  lady ,  we are undone ! 	we are ruined ,  lady ,  we are ruined ! 
alack the day ! 	shame on this day ! 
he's gone ,  he's kill'd ,  he's dead ! 	he's gone ,  he's killed ,  he's dead ! 
can heaven be so envious ? 	can heaven be so jealous ? 
romeo can ,  Though heaven cannot . 	romeo can ,  Though heaven cannot . 
o Romeo ,  Romeo ! 	o Romeo ,  Romeo ! 
who ever would have thought it ? 	who ever would have thought it ? 
romeo ! 	romeo ! 
what devil art thou that dost torment me thus ? 	what devil are you that torments me like this ? 
this torture should be roar'd in dismal hell . 	this torture should make a loud noise in dismal hell . 
hath Romeo slain himself ? 	has Romeo killed himself ? 
say thou but ‘I , ’ And that bare vowel ‘I’ shall poison more Than the death - darting eye of cockatrice . 	you say only  “ I ,  ”  And I shall poison that bare vowel more Than the death - darting eye of the serpent hatched from an egg . 
I am not I ,  if there be such an ‘I’; Or those eyes shut that make thee answer ‘I . ’ If he be slain ,  say ‘I’; or if not ,  ‘no . ’ Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe . 	I am not  “ I ,  ”  if there be such an  “ I ,  ”  Or those eyes shut that make you answer  “ I .  ”  If he is slain ,  say  “ I; ”  or if not ,  say  “ No .  ”  Brief sounds determine my wealth or sorrows . 
here on his manly breast . 	here on his manly breast . 
o ,  break ,  my heart ! 	o ,  break ,  my heart ! 
poor bankrout ,  break at once ! 	poor bankrupt ,  break at once ! 
vile earth ,  to earth resign; end motion here ,  And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier ! 	evil earth ,  die; end all motion here; And you and Romeo lay in a heavy tomb ! 
o courteous Tybalt ! 	o courteous Tybalt ! 
what storm is this that blows so contrary ? 	what kind of storm is this that blows so opposed to nature ? 
Is Romeo slaught'red ,  and is Tybalt dead ? 	Is Romeo slaughtered ,  and is Tybalt dead ? 
my dear - lov'd cousin ,  and my dearer lord ? 	my dear - loved cousin ,  and my dearer lord ? 
then ,  dreadful trumpet ,  sound the general doom ! 	then ,  dreadful trumpet ,  sound the general doom ! 
for who is living ,  if those two are gone ? 	for who is living ,  if those two are gone ? 
tybalt is gone ,  and Romeo banished; Romeo that kill'd him ,  he is banished . 	tybalt is gone ,  and Romeo banished; Romeo killed him; he is banished . 
o God ! 	o God ! 
did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood ? 	did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood ? 
o serpent heart ,  hid with a flow'ring face ! 	o serpent heart ,  hidden by a handsome face ! 
did ever dragon keep so fair a cave ? 	did a dragon ever keep so beautiful a cave ? 
beautiful tyrant ! 	beautiful tyrant ! 
fiend angelical ! 	fiend angelical ! 
dove - feather'd raven ! 	dove - feathered raven ! 
wolvish - ravening lamb ! 	wolfish - rabid lamb ! 
despised substance of divinest show ! 	despised substance of the most divine show ! 
just opposite to what thou justly seem'st— A damned saint ,  an honourable villain ! 	just opposite to what you justly seem ,  A damned saint ,  an honorable villain ! 
o nature ,  what hadst thou to do in hell When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend In mortal paradise of such sweet flesh ? 	o nature ,  what did you have to do in hell When you sheltered the spirit of a fiend In a deadly paradise of such sweet flesh ? 
was ever book containing such vile matter So fairly bound ? 	was there ever a book containing such vile matter So beautifully bound ? 
o ,  that deceit should dwell In such a gorgeous palace ! 	o ,  that deceit should dwell In such a gorgeous palace ! 
there's no trust ,  No faith ,  no honesty in men; all perjur'd ,  All forsworn ,  all naught ,  all dissemblers . 	there's no trust ,  No faith ,  no honesty in men; all are liars ,  All swear falsely ,  all nothing ,  all deceivers . 
ah ,  where's my man ? 	ah ,  where's my man ? 
give me some aqua vitae . 	give me some whiskey . 
these griefs ,  these woes ,  these sorrows make me old . 	these griefs ,  these woes ,  these sorrows make me old . 
shame come to Romeo ! 	shame come to Romeo ! 
blister'd be thy tongue For such a wish ! 	your tongue should be blistered For such a wish ! 
he was not born to shame . 	he was not born to shame . 
upon his brow shame is asham'd to sit; For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd Sole monarch of the universal earth . 	upon his brow ,  shame is ashamed to sit; For it’s a throne where honor may be crowned The only king of the universal earth . 
o ,  what a beast was I to chide at him ! 	o ,  what a beast was I to scold him ! 
will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin ? 	will you speak well of him that killed your cousin ? 
shall I speak ill of him that is my husband ? 	shall I speak ill of him that is my husband ? 
ah ,  poor my lord ,  what tongue shall smooth thy name When I ,  thy three - hours’ wife ,  have mangled it ? 	ah ,  poor my lord ,  what tongue shall clear your name ,  When I ,  your wife for three hours ,  have mangled it ? 
but wherefore ,  villain ,  didst thou kill my cousin ? 	but why ,  villain ,  did you kill my cousin ? 
that villain cousin would have kill'd my husband . 	that villain cousin would have killed my husband . 
back ,  foolish tears ,  back to your native spring ! 	back ,  foolish tears ,  back to your native spring . 
your tributary drops belong to woe ,  Which you ,  mistaking ,  offer up to joy . 	your drops of tribute belong to sorrow ,  Which you ,  mistaken ,  have offered up to joy . 
my husband lives ,  that Tybalt would have slain; And Tybalt's dead ,  that would have slain my husband . 	my husband lives ,  that Tybalt would have slain ,  And Tybalt's dead ,  that would have slain my husband . 
some word there was ,  worser than Tybalt's death ,  That murdered me . 	some word there was ,  worse than Tybalt's death ,  That murdered me . 
I would forget it fain; But O ,  it presses to my memory Like damned guilty deeds to sinners’ minds ! 	I would gladly forget it ,  But ,  O ,  it presses into my memory Like damned guilty deeds press into sinners' minds . 
tybalt is dead ,  and Romeo banished . ’ That ‘banished , ’ that one word ‘banished , ’ Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts . 	tybalt is dead ,  and Romeo banished .  ”  That  “ banished ,  ”  that one word  “ banished ,  ”  Has killed ten thousand Tybalts . 
but with a rearward following Tybalt's death ,  ‘Romeo is banished’— to speak that word Is father ,  mother ,  Tybalt ,  Romeo ,  Juliet ,  All slain ,  all dead . 	but with a rear - ward following Tybalt's death ,   ” Romeo is banished .  ”  To speak that word Is father ,  mother ,  Tybalt ,  Romeo ,  Juliet ,  All slain ,  all dead . 
where is my father and my mother ,  nurse ? 	where are my father and my mother ,  nurse ? 
weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse . 	weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corpse . 
will you go to them ? 	will you go to them ? 
I will bring you thither . 	I will bring you there . 
wash they his wounds with tears ? 	they wash his wounds with tears . 
mine shall be spent ,  When theirs are dry ,  for Romeo's banishment . 	my tears shall be spent ,  When theirs are dry ,  for Romeo's banishment . 
take up those cords . 	take up those ropes . 
poor ropes ,  you are beguil'd ,  Both you and I ,  for Romeo is exil'd . 	poor ropes ,  you are deceived ,  Both you and I; for Romeo is exiled . 
he made you for a highway to my bed; But I ,  a maid ,  die maiden - widowed . 	he made you to be a highway to my bed; But I ,  a maid ,  die a maiden and a widow . 
hie to your chamber . 	hurry to your chamber . 
I'll find Romeo To comfort you . 	I'll find Romeo To comfort you . 
I wot well where he is . 	I know well where he is . 
hark ye ,  your Romeo will be here at night . 	you listen: your Romeo will be here at night . 
I'll to him; he is hid at Laurence’ cell . 	I'll go to him; he is hidden at Lawrence' cell . 
o ,  find him ! 	o ,  find him ! 
give this ring to my true knight And bid him come to take his last farewell . 	give this ring to my true knight ,  And bid him come to take his last farewell . 
romeo ,  come forth; come forth ,  thou fearful man . 	romeo ,  come here; come here ,  you fearful man . 
affliction is enamour’d of thy parts ,  And thou art wedded to calamity . 	affliction is in love of your parts ,  And you are married to calamity . 
father ,  what news ? 	father ,  what news ? 
what is the Prince's doom ? 	what is the prince's sentence ? 
what sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand That I yet know not ? 	what sorrow craves to know me at my hand ,  That I don’t know yet ? 
too familiar Is my dear son with such sour company . 	my dear son is Too familiar with such sour company . 
I bring thee tidings of the Prince's doom . 	I bring you news of the prince's sentence . 
what less than doomsday is the Prince's doom ? 	what less than the end of the world is the prince's sentence ? 
a gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips— Not body's death ,  but body's banishment . 	a gentler judgment vanished from his lips ,  Not your body's death ,  but your body's banishment . 
ha ,  banishment ? 	what ,  banishment ? 
be merciful ,  say ‘death’; For exile hath more terror in his look ,  Much more than death . 	be merciful ,  say death; For exile has more terror in his look ,  Much more than death; do not say banishment . 
do not say ‘banishment . ’ Hence from Verona art thou banished . 	you are banished away from Verona . 
be patient ,  for the world is broad and wide . 	be patient ,  for the world is broad and wide . 
there is no world without Verona walls ,  But purgatory ,  torture ,  hell itself . 	there is no world without Verona walls ,  Only purgatory ,  torture ,  hell itself . 
calling death ‘banishment , ’ Thou cut'st my head off with a golden axe And smilest upon the stroke that murders me . 	calling death banishment ,  You cut my head off with a golden axe ,  And smile on the stroke that murders me . 
o deadly sin ! 	o deadly sin ! 
o rude unthankfulness ! 	o rude unthankfulness ! 
thy fault our law calls death; but the kind Prince ,  Taking thy part ,  hath rush'd aside the law ,  And turn'd that black word death to banishment . 	your fault our law calls death; but the kind prince ,  Taking your part ,  has brushed aside the law ,  And turned that black word  “ death ”  to banishment . 
this is dear mercy ,  and thou seest it not . 	this is dear mercy ,  and you don’t see it . 
tis torture ,  and not mercy . 	It’s torture ,  and not mercy . 
heaven is here ,  Where Juliet lives; and every cat and dog And little mouse ,  every unworthy thing ,  Live here in heaven and may look on her; But Romeo may not . 	heaven is here ,  Where Juliet lives ,  and every cat ,  and dog ,  And little mouse ,  every unworthy thing ,  Live here in heaven ,  and may look on her; But Romeo may not . 
more validity ,  More honourable state ,  more courtship lives In carrion flies than Romeo . 	more legal authority ,  More honorable state ,  more courtship lives In flies on dead meat than Romeo . 
this may flies do ,  when I from this must fly; They are free men ,  but I am banished . 	flies may do this ,  when I must fly from this . 
and sayest thou yet that exile is not death ? 	and you still say that exile is not death ! 
o ,  thou wilt speak again of banishment . 	o ,  you will speak again of banishment . 
yet ‘banished’ ? 	again  “ banished ?  ”  Stop with the philosophy ! 
unless philosophy can make a Juliet ,  Displant a town ,  reverse a prince's doom ,  It helps not ,  it prevails not . 	unless philosophy can make a Juliet ,  Uproot a town ,  reverse a prince's sentence ,  It doesn’t help ,  it doesn’t succeed . 
talk no more . 	talk no more . 
o ,  then I see that madmen have no ears . 	o ,  then I see that madmen have no ears . 
how should they ,  when that wise men have no eyes ? 	how should they ,  when wise men have no eyes ? 
let me dispute with thee of thy estate . 	let me argue with you about your situation . 
thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel . 	you can’t speak about something you don’t feel . 
wert thou as young as I ,  Juliet thy love ,  An hour but married ,  Tybalt murdered ,  Doting like me ,  and like me banished ,  Then mightst thou speak ,  then mightst thou tear thy hair ,  And fall upon the ground ,  as I do now ,  Taking the measure of an unmade grave . 	If you were as young as I ,  Juliet your love ,  Married only an hour ,  Tybalt murdered ,  Foolish like me ,  and ,  like me ,  banished ,  Then you might speak ,  then you might tear your hair ,  And fall upon the ground ,  as I do now ,  Thinking about an unmade grave . 
good Romeo ,  hide thyself . 	good Romeo ,  hide yourself . 
not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans ,  Mist - like infold me from the search of eyes . 	not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans ,  Like a mist wraps me up and hides me from the search of eyes . 
hark ,  how they knock ! 	listen ,  how they knock ! 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
who knocks so hard ? 	who knocks so hard ? 
whence come you ? 	where do you come from ? 
what's your will ? 	what do you want ? 
welcome ,  then . 	welcome then . 
there on the ground ,  with his own tears made drunk . 	there on the ground ,  made drunk with his own tears . 
o ,  he is even in my mistress’ case ,  Just in her case ! 	o ,  it’s the same in my mistress' case ,  Just in her case ! 
o woeful sympathy ! 	o sad sympathy ! 
piteous predicament ! 	pitiful situation ! 
even so lies she ,  Blubbering and weeping ,  weeping and blubbering . 	she lies the same way ,  Blubbering and weeping ,  weeping and blubbering . 
nurse— Ah sir ! 	ah sir ! 
ah sir ! 	ah sir ! 
well ,  death's the end of all . 	well ,  death's the end of us all . 
spakest thou of Juliet ? 	did you speak of Juliet ? 
how is it with her ? 	how is it with her ? 
doth not she think me an old murderer ,  Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy With blood remov'd but little from her own ? 	doesn’t she think I’m an old murderer ,  Now I have stained the beginning of our joy With blood from a close relative ? 
where is she ? 	where is she ? 
and how doth she ? 	and how is she doing ? 
and what says My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love ? 	and what says My hidden lady to our canceled love ? 
o ,  she says nothing ,  sir ,  but weeps and weeps; And now falls on her bed ,  and then starts up ,  And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries ,  And then down falls again . 	o ,  she says nothing ,  sir ,  but weeps and weeps; And now falls on her bed; and then starts up ,  And calls Tybalt ,  and then cries over Romeo ,  And then falls down again . 
as if that name ,  Shot from the deadly level of a gun ,  Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand Murdered her kinsman . 	as if that name of Romeo ,  Shot from the deadly level of a gun ,  Murdered her the same way as that name's cursed hand Murdered her kinsman . 
o ,  tell me ,  friar ,  tell me ,  In what vile part of this anatomy Doth my name lodge ? 	o ,  tell me ,  friar ,  tell me ,  In what vile part of this anatomy Does my name live ? 
tell me ,  that I may sack The hateful mansion . 	tell me ,  that I may rip The hateful mansion apart . 
hold thy desperate hand . 	hold your desperate hand . 
art thou a man ? 	are you a man ? 
or ill - beseeming beast in seeming both ! 	or ill - beseeming beast in seeming both ! 
thou hast amaz'd me . 	you have amazed me . 
by my holy order ,  I thought thy disposition better temper'd . 	by my holy order ,  I thought your disposition was of a better temper . 
hast thou slain Tybalt ? 	have you killed Tybalt ? 
wilt thou slay thyself ? 	will you kill yourself ? 
and slay thy lady that in thy life lives ,  By doing damned hate upon thyself ? 	and kill your lady ,  too ,  who lives in you ,  By doing damned hate to yourself ? 
why railest thou on thy birth ,  the heaven ,  and earth ? 	why do you complain about your birth ,  the heaven ,  and earth ? 
since birth and heaven and earth ,  all three do meet In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose . 	since birth is heaven and heaven is earth ,  all three meet In you at once ,  which you would lose at once . 
thy noble shape is but a form of wax Digressing from the valour of a man; Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury ,  Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish; Thy wit ,  that ornament to shape and love ,  Misshapen in the conduct of them both ,  Like powder in a skilless soldier's flask ,  Is set afire by thine own ignorance ,  And thou dismemb'red with thine own defence . 	your noble shape is only a form of wax ,  Deviating from the valor of a man; Your dear love sworn is empty lies ,  Killing that love which you have vowed to cherish; Your wit ,  that ornament to shape and love ,  Disfigured in the conduct of them both ,  Like powder in a recruit soldier's flask ,  Is set a - fire by your own ignorance ,  And you dismembered by your own defense . 
what ,  rouse thee ,  man ! 	what ,  wake up ,  man ! 
tybalt would kill thee ,  But thou slewest Tybalt . 	tybalt would have killed you ,  But you killed Tybalt . 
there art thou happy too . 	there you are lucky too . 
the law ,  that threat'ned death ,  becomes thy friend And turns it to exile . 	the law that threatened you with death becomes your friend And turns it into exile . 
there art thou happy . 	there you are lucky . 
take heed ,  take heed ,  for such die miserable . 	pay attention ,  pay attention ,  for such people die miserable . 
go get thee to thy love ,  as was decreed ,  Ascend her chamber ,  hence and comfort her . 	go ,  go to your love ,  as was decreed ,  Ascend to her chamber there ,  and comfort her . 
but look thou stay not till the watch be set ,  For then thou canst not pass to Mantua ,  Where thou shalt live till we can find a time To blaze your marriage ,  reconcile your friends ,  Beg pardon of the Prince ,  and call thee back With twenty hundred thousand times more joy Than thou went'st forth in lamentation . 	but ,  be careful that you don’t stay after the guards are in place ,  Because then ,  you cannot get to Mantua ,  Where you shall live until we can find a time To publicize your marriage ,  reconcile your friends ,  Beg pardon of the prince ,  and call you back With twenty hundred thousand times more joy Than you left here in grief . 
go before ,  Nurse . 	go before ,  nurse . 
commend me to thy lady ,  And bid her hasten all the house to bed ,  Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto . 	commend me to thy lady; And bid her to hurry the whole house to bed ,  Which heavy sorrow makes them more likely to do . 
romeo is coming . 	romeo is coming . 
o Lord ,  I could have stay'd here all the night To hear good counsel . 	o Lord ,  I could have stayed here all the night To hear good counsel . 
o ,  what learning is ! 	o ,  what a great thing learning is ! 
my lord ,  I'll tell my lady you will come . 	my lord ,  I'll tell my lady you will come . 
do so ,  and bid my sweet prepare to chide . 	do so ,  and bid my sweet to prepare to scold me . 
here is a ring she bid me give you ,  sir . 	here ,  sir ,  is a ring she asked me give you ,  sir . 
hie you ,  make haste ,  for it grows very late . 	hurry up ,  make haste ,  for it grows very late . 
how well my comfort is reviv'd by this ! 	how well my comfort is revived by this ! 
sojourn in Mantua . 	travel to Mantua . 
I'll find out your man ,  And he shall signify from time to time Every good hap to you that chances here . 	I'll contact your man ,  And he shall bring ,  from time to time ,  News to you of every good event that happens here . 
give me thy hand . 	give me your hand . 
tis late . 	It’s late . 
but that a joy past joy calls out on me ,  It were a grief so brief to part with thee . 	only that a joy beyond joy calls out to me ,  It’s a grief so brief to part with you . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
things have fall'n out ,  sir ,  so unluckily That we have had no time to move our daughter . 	things have fallen out ,  sir ,  so unluckily That we have had no time to talk to our daughter . 
look you ,  she lov'd her kinsman Tybalt dearly ,  And so did I . 	listen ,  she loved her cousin Tybalt dearly ,  And so did I . 
well ,  we were born to die . 	well ,  we were born to die . 
I promise you ,  but for your company ,  I would have been abed an hour ago . 	I promise you ,  except for your company ,  I would have been in bed an hour ago . 
these times of woe afford no tune to woo . 	these times of sorrow don’t really give me a chance to pursue love . 
madam ,  good night . 	madam ,  good night . 
commend me to your daughter . 	commend me to your daughter . 
I will ,  and know her mind early to - morrow; To - night she's mew'd up to her heaviness . 	I will ,  and I’ll know her mind early tomorrow; Tonight she's shut up with her grief . 
sir Paris ,  I will make a desperate tender Of my child's love . 	sir Paris ,  I will make a desperate offer Of my child's love . 
I think she will be rul'd In all respects by me; nay more ,  I doubt it not . 	I think she will be ruled By me in all respects ,  no more ,  I don’t doubt it . 
what day is this ? 	what day is this ? 
monday ,  my lord . 	monday ,  my lord . 
monday ! 	monday ! 
ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ! 
well ,  Wednesday is too soon . 	well ,  Wednesday is too soon ,  Make it Thursday . 
thursday let it be— a Thursday ,  tell her She shall be married to this noble earl . 	on Thursday ,  tell her ,  She shall be married to this noble earl . 
will you be ready ? 	will you be ready ? 
do you like this haste ? 	do you like this speed ? 
we'll keep no great ado— a friend or two; For hark you ,  Tybalt being slain so late ,  It may be thought we held him carelessly ,  Being our kinsman ,  if we revel much . 	we'll make it a small wedding ,  a friend or two; Because ,  listen ,  Tybalt’s being killed so recently ,  People may think we didn’t care for him ,  Being our relative ,  if we party too much . 
therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends ,  And there an end . 	so ,  we'll have some half a dozen friends ,  And that’ll be it . 
but what say you to Thursday ? 	but what do say you to Thursday ? 
my lord ,  I would that Thursday were to - morrow . 	my lord ,  I wish that Thursday were tomorrow . 
well ,  get you gone . 	well ,  go home . 
a Thursday be it then . 	on Thursday ,  it’ll be then . 
afore me ,  it is so very very late That we may call it early by - and - by . 	I swear that it is so very ,  very late That we should call it early by and by . 
good night . 	good night . 
wilt thou be gone ? 	are you going ? 
It is not yet near day . 	It’s not morning yet . 
believe me ,  love ,  it was the nightingale . 	believe me ,  love ,  it was the nightingale . 
It was the lark ,  the herald of the morn; No nightingale . 	It was the lark ,  the messenger that says it’s morning ,  No nightingale . 
look ,  love ,  what envious streaks Do lace the severing clouds in yonder East . 	look ,  love ,  what jealous streaks of sunlight Lace the parting clouds over there in the east . 
night's candles are burnt out ,  and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops . 	night's candles are burned out ,  and the joyful day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops . 
I must be gone and live ,  or stay and die . 	I have to go and live ,  or stay and die . 
yon light is not daylight; I know it ,  I . 	that light is not daylight ,  I just know it . 
It is some meteor that the sun exhales To be to thee this night a torchbearer And light thee on thy way to Mantua . 	It is some meteor that the sun spits out To be a torch - bearer for you tonight And light your way to Mantua . 
therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone . 	therefore stay a bit longer ,  you don’t need to go . 
I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye ,  'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow; Nor that is not the lark whose notes do beat The vaulty heaven so high above our heads . 	I'll say that that gray streak is not the morning sun ,  It’s only the pale reflection of Cynthia's brow; And that’s not the lark whose notes hit The high ceiling of heaven so high above our heads . 
I have more care to stay than will to go . 	I have more care to stay than will to go . 
come ,  death ,  and welcome ! 	come ,  death ,  and welcome ! 
juliet wills it so . 	juliet wills it so . 
how is't ,  my soul ? 	how is it ,  my soul ? 
It is ,  it is ! 	It is ,  it is ! 
It is the lark that sings so out of tune ,  Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps . 	It is the lark that sings so out of tune ,  Straining to sing horrible songs and unpleasing notes . 
some say the lark makes sweet division; This doth not so ,  for she divideth us . 	some say the lark makes sweet division in its songs; This isn’t true ,  because she divides us . 
more light and light—more dark and dark our woes ! 	lighter and lighter ,  darker and darker our sorrows ! 
madam ! 	madam ! 
nurse ? 	nurse ? 
your lady mother is coming to your chamber . 	your lady mother is coming to your bedroom . 
then ,  window ,  let day in ,  and let life out . 	then ,  window ,  let day in ,  and let life out . 
farewell ,  farewell ! 	farewell ,  farewell ! 
one kiss ,  and I'll descend . 	just give me one more kiss ,  and I'll climb down . 
I must hear from thee every day in the hour ,  For in a minute there are many days . 	I must hear from you every hour of the day ,  Because there are many days in just one minute . 
o ,  by this count I shall be much in years Ere I again behold my Romeo ! 	o ,  by this count I’ll be very old Before I see my Romeo again ! 
farewell ! 	farewell ! 
I will omit no opportunity That may convey my greetings ,  love ,  to thee . 	I won’t miss a chance To send you my greetings ,  love . 
o ,  think'st thou we shall ever meet again ? 	o ,  do you think we shall ever meet again ? 
I doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve For sweet discourses in our time to come . 	I don’t doubt it ,  and all these sorrows shall Become sweet memories that we can talk about in our future . 
methinks I see thee ,  now thou art below ,  As one dead in the bottom of a tomb . 	I think I see you ,  now you are below me ,  Looking like someone dead in the bottom of a tomb . 
either my eyesight fails ,  or thou look'st pale . 	either my eyesight fails ,  or you look pale . 
and trust me ,  love ,  in my eye so do you . 	and trust me ,  love ,  in my eyes ,  so do you . 
dry sorrow drinks our blood . 	thirsty sorrow drinks our blood . 
o Fortune ,  Fortune ! 	o Lady Luck ! 
all men call thee fickle . 	all men say you are changeable . 
If thou art fickle ,  what dost thou with him That is renown'd for faith ? 	If you are so fickle ,  what do you want with a guy Who is known for his faith ? 
be fickle ,  Fortune ,  For then I hope thou wilt not keep him long But send him back . 	be changeable ,  Luck ,  Because then ,  I hope ,  you won’t keep him long ,  But send him back to me . 
ho ,  daughter ! 	hey ,  daughter ! 
are you up ? 	are you up ? 
who is't that calls ? 	who’s calling me ? 
It is my lady mother . 	Is it my lady mother ? 
Is she not down so late ,  or up so early ? 	Isn’t she down so late ,  or up so early ? 
what unaccustom'd cause procures her hither ? 	what unusual reason brings her here ? 
why ,  how now ,  Juliet ? 	why ,  how are you ,  Juliet ? 
madam ,  I am not well . 	madam ,  I am not well . 
evermore weeping for your cousin's death ? 	endless weeping for your cousin's death ? 
what ,  wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears ? 	what ,  will you wash him from his grave with tears ? 
an if thou could'st ,  thou could'st not make him live . 	and if you could ,  you couldn’t bring him back to life . 
therefore have done . 	therefore ,  stop grieving . 
some grief shows much of love; But much of grief shows still some want of wit . 	a little grief shows much love; But too much of grief shows a little craziness . 
yet let me weep for such a feeling loss . 	let me weep for feeling such a loss . 
so shall you feel the loss ,  but not the friend Which you weep for . 	you’ll feel the loss ,  but not the loss of the friend You weep for . 
feeling so the loss ,  I cannot choose but ever weep the friend . 	feeling the loss so much ,  I can’t help but weep for the friend forever . 
well ,  girl ,  thou weep'st not so much for his death As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him . 	well ,  girl ,  you are weeping not so much for his death As for the villain who lives who slaughtered him . 
what villain ,  madam ? 	what villain ,  madam ? 
that same villain Romeo . 	that same villain Romeo . 
villain and he be many miles asunder . 	the words  “ Villain ”  and his name are many miles apart . 
god pardon him ! 	god pardon him ! 
I do ,  with all my heart; And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart . 	I pardon him ,  with all my heart; And yet no man like him makes my heart so sad . 
that is because the traitor murderer lives . 	that is because the traitor murderer lives . 
ay ,  madam ,  from the reach of these my hands . 	yes ,  madam ,  from the reach of my hands . 
would none but I might venge my cousin's death ! 	I wish that no one but me might avenge my cousin's death ! 
we will have vengeance for it ,  fear thou not . 	we will have vengeance for it ,  don’t worry about that . 
then weep no more . 	so stop crying . 
I'll send to one in Mantua ,  Where that same banish'd runagate doth live ,  Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram That he shall soon keep Tybalt company; And then I hope thou wilt be satisfied . 	I'll send a messenger to someone in Mantua ,  Where that same banished runaway lives ,  And he shall give him such an unusual vial of medicine That he will soon keep Tybalt company ,  And then I hope you’ll be satisfied . 
Indeed I never shall be satisfied With Romeo till I behold him— dead — Is my poor heart so for a kinsman vex'd . 	Indeed I’ll never be satisfied With Romeo till I see him dead . 
madam ,  if you could find out but a man To bear a poison ,  I would temper it; That Romeo should ,  upon receipt thereof ,  Soon sleep in quiet . 	my poor heart is so aggravated for a kinsman ,  Madam ,  that if you could only find a man To bear a poison ,  I would help to mix it ,  So that Romeo should ,  when he gets it ,  Soon sleep in quiet . 
o ,  how my heart abhors To hear him nam'd and cannot come to him ,  To wreak the love I bore my cousin Tybalt Upon his body that hath slaughter'd him ! 	o ,  how my heart hates To hear his name ,  and I can’t present myself to him ,  To vent the love I had for my cousin Tybalt Upon the body of the man that has slaughtered him ! 
find thou the means ,  and I'll find such a man . 	you find the means ,  and I'll find such a man . 
but now I'll tell thee joyful tidings ,  girl . 	but now I have joyful new for you ,  girl . 
and joy comes well in such a needy time . 	and joy is welcomed in such a needy time . 
what are they ,  I beseech your ladyship ? 	what is it ,  I beg your ladyship ? 
well ,  well ,  thou hast a careful father ,  child; One who ,  to put thee from thy heaviness ,  Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy That thou expects not ,  nor I look'd not for . 	well ,  well ,  you have a careful father ,  child; One who ,  to put you past all this grief ,  Has sorted out a surprise happy day That you hadn’t expected ,  and I hadn’t looked for . 
marry ,  my child ,  early next Thursday morn The gallant ,  young ,  and noble gentleman ,  The County Paris ,  at Saint Peter's Church ,  Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride . 	by Mary ,  my child ,  early next Thursday morning ,  The gallant ,  young ,  and noble gentleman ,  The Count Paris ,  at St .  Peter's Church ,  Shall happily make you there a joyful bride . 
these are news indeed ! 	this is news indeed ! 
here comes your father . 	here comes your father . 
tell him so yourself ,  And see how he will take it at your hands . 	tell him so yourself ,  And see how he will take it from you . 
when the sun sets the air doth drizzle dew ,  But for the sunset of my brother's son It rains downright . 	when the sun sets ,  the air drizzles dew ,  But for the funeral of my brother's son It pours rain . 
how now ? 	what’s going on ? 
a conduit ,  girl ? 	still a fountain ,  girl ? 
what ,  still in tears ? 	what ,  still in tears ? 
evermore show'ring ? 	forever showering ? 
how now ,  wife ? 	what’s going on ,  wife ! 
have you delivered to her our decree ? 	have you told her what we have decided for her ? 
I would the fool were married to her grave ! 	I wish the foolish girl were married to her grave ! 
soft ! 	what ! 
take me with you ,  take me with you ,  wife . 	catch me ,  catch me ,  wife . 
Is she not proud ? 	Isn’t she proud ? 
doth she not count her blest ,  Unworthy as she is ,  that we have wrought So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom ? 	doesn’t she count her blessings that Unworthy as she is ,  we have secured So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom ? 
not proud you have ,  but thankful that you have . 	I’m not proud that you have ,  but I’m thankful that you have . 
proud can I never be of what I hate ,  But thankful even for hate that is meant love . 	I can never be proud of what I hate ,  But I can be thankful even for hate that is meant to be love . 
how ,  how ,  how ,  how ,  choplogic ? 	so that’s how it is now ,  arguing with choppy reasoning ? 
what is this ? 	what is this ? 
out ,  you green - sickness carrion ! 	get out ,  you green ,  diseased dead meat ! 
out ,  you baggage ! 	out ,  you bag of garbage ! 
you tallow - face ! 	you pale ,  ugly face ! 
fie ,  fie ! 	for shame ,  for shame ! 
what ,  are you mad ? 	what ,  are you crazy ? 
hang thee ,  young baggage ! 	I’ll see you hang first ,  young filth ! 
disobedient wretch ! 	disobedient wretch ! 
I tell thee what—get thee to church a Thursday Or never after look me in the face . 	get yourself to church on Thursday ,  Or never ,  after that ,  look me in the face . 
speak not ,  reply not ,  do not answer me ! 	don’t speak ,  don’t reply ,  don’t answer me . 
my fingers itch . 	my fingers itch . 
wife ,  we scarce thought us blest That God had lent us but this only child; But now I see this one is one too much ,  And that we have a curse in having her . 	wife ,  we were just thinking ourselves blessed That God had given us this only child ,  But now I see that this one is one too many ,  And that we are cursed in having her . 
out on her ,  hilding ! 	throw her out ,  the good for nothing ! 
god in heaven bless her ! 	god in heaven bless her ! 
you are to blame ,  my lord ,  to rate her so . 	you are to blame ,  my lord ,  to berate her like this . 
and why ,  my Lady Wisdom ? 	and why are you butting in ,  my lady wisdom ? 
I speak no treason . 	I’m not telling a lie . 
may not one speak ? 	can’t someone speak ? 
peace ,  you mumbling fool ! 	peace ,  you mumbling fool ! 
utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl ,  For here we need it not . 	talk about your serious speech over a gossip's bowl ,  Because we don’t need it here !  . 
you are too hot . 	you are too hot under the collar . 
god's bread ! 	god's bread ! 
It makes me mad . 	It makes me angry . 
graze where you will ,  you shall not house with me . 	eat where you can ,  you won’t live with me . 
thursday is near; lay hand on heart ,  advise: An you be mine ,  I'll give you to my friend; An you be not ,  hang ,  beg ,  starve ,  die in the streets ,  For ,  by my soul ,  I'll ne'er acknowledge thee ,  Nor what is mine shall never do thee good . 	If you are mine ,  I'll give you to my friend; If you aren’t ,  go hang yourself ,  beg ,  starve ,  die in the streets ,  Because ,  by my soul ,  I'll never acknowledge you exist ,  And you will cut off from your inheritance . 
trust to't . 	trust to it . 
bethink you . 	think about it . 
I'll not be forsworn . 	you won’t make a liar out of me . 
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds That sees into the bottom of my grief ? 	Is there no pity sitting in the clouds That sees into the bottom of my grief ? 
o sweet my mother ,  cast me not away ! 	o ,  sweet my mother ,  don’t push me away ! 
delay this marriage for a month ,  a week; Or if you do not ,  make the bridal bed In that dim monument where Tybalt lies . 	delay this marriage for a month ,  a week; Or ,  if you don’t ,  make my bridal bed In that dim tomb where Tybalt lies . 
talk not to me ,  for I'll not speak a word . 	don’t talk to me ,  because I won’t answer you . 
do as thou wilt ,  for I have done with thee . 	do what you want to do ,  because I’m finished with you . 
my husband is on earth ,  my faith in heaven . 	my husband is on earth ,  my faith in heaven . 
how shall that faith return again to earth Unless that husband send it me from heaven By leaving earth ? 	how can I avoid committing a sin ,  Unless the husband that heaven sent me Dies ? 
alack ,  alack ,  that heaven should practise stratagems Upon so soft a subject as myself ! 	what a pity ,  what a pity that heaven should practice its strategies On a weak subject such as I am ! 
what say'st thou ? 	what do you say ? 
hast thou not a word of joy ? 	don’t you have any word of joy ? 
some comfort ,  Nurse . 	give me some comfort ,  nurse . 
faith ,  here it is . 	well then ,  here it is . 
romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you; Or if he do ,  it needs must be by stealth . 	romeo Is banished ,  and all the world is nothing If he ever dares to come back to fight for you . 
then ,  since the case so stands as now it doth ,  I think it best you married with the County . 	then ,  since that’s the story as it stands now ,  I think it best for you to marry the count . 
o ,  he's a lovely gentleman ! 	o ,  he's a lovely gentleman ! 
romeo's a dishclout to him . 	romeo's a dish cloth compared to him . 
an eagle ,  madam ,  Hath not so green ,  so quick ,  so fair an eye As Paris hath . 	an eagle ,  madam ,  Is not as green ,  as quick ,  and hasn’t so beautiful an eye As Paris has . 
beshrew my very heart ,  I think you are happy in this second match ,  For it excels your first; or if it did not ,  Your first is dead—or 'twere as good he were As living here and you no use of him . 	curse my very heart ,  I think you will be happy in this second marriage ,  For it surpasses your first . 
speak'st thou this from thy heart ? 	do you say this from heart ? 
and from my soul too; Else beshrew them both . 	and from my soul too Or else curse them both . 
amen ! 	amen ! 
what ? 	what ? 
well ,  thou hast comforted me marvellous much . 	well ,  you have really comforted me a lot . 
go in; and tell my lady I am gone ,  Having displeas'd my father ,  to Laurence’ cell ,  To make confession and to be absolv'd . 	go inside ,  and tell my mother that I’m going to Lawrence' cell to make confession and be forgiven Because I’ve made my father so angry . 
marry ,  I will; and this is wisely done . 	by Mary ,  I will . 
ancient damnation ! 	damn ,  damn ! 
o most wicked fiend ! 	o most wicked ,  evil woman ! 
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn ,  Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue Which she hath prais'd him with above compare So many thousand times ? 	Is it more sin to wish me to be a liar ,  Or to curse my husband with the same tongue That she has praised him with ,  above compare So many thousand times ? 
I'll to the friar to know his remedy . 	I'll go to the friar to know his solution . 
If all else fail ,  myself have power to die . 	If there isn’t a solution ,  I have the power to kill myself . 
on Thursday ,  sir ? 	on Thursday ,  sir ? 
the time is very short . 	that’s very soon . 
my father Capulet will have it so ,  And I am nothing slow to slack his haste . 	my father Capulet wants it that way; And I won’t do anything to stop him from being so hasty . 
you say you do not know the lady's mind . 	you say you don’t know what the lady thinks about this . 
uneven is the course; I like it not . 	that’s not good; I don’t like it . 
Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death ,  And therefore have I little talk'd of love; For Venus smiles not in a house of tears . 	she weeps excessively about Tybalt's death ,  And because of that ,  I haven’t talked a lot about love ,  Because the goddess of love doesn’t smile in a house of tears . 
now ,  sir ,  her father counts it dangerous That she do give her sorrow so much sway ,  And in his wisdom hastes our marriage To stop the inundation of her tears ,  Which ,  too much minded by herself alone ,  May be put from her by society . 	now ,  sir ,  her father thinks it’s dangerous That she gives in so much to her grief; And ,  in his wisdom ,  hurries our marriage To stop the flood of her tears ,  Which ,  if she does too much crying by herself ,  May make her too depressed to function in society . 
now do you know the reason of this haste . 	now you know why we’re in a hurry . 
I would I knew not why it should be slow'd . 	I wish I knew a reason this wedding should be slowed down . 
look ,  sir ,  here comes the lady toward my cell . 	look ,  sir ,  here the lady is coming toward my cell . 
happily met ,  my lady and my wife ! 	I’m happy to see you ,  my lady and my wife ! 
that may be ,  sir ,  when I may be a wife . 	you may call me that ,  sir ,  when I may be a wife . 
that may be must be ,  love ,  on Thursday next . 	that  “ may be ”  must be ,  love ,  on next Thursday . 
come you to make confession to this father ? 	have you come to make confession to this father ? 
to answer that ,  I should confess to you . 	to answer that question ,  I should confess to you . 
do not deny to him that you love me . 	don’t deny to him that you love me . 
I will confess to you that I love him . 	I will confess to you that I love him . 
so will ye ,  I am sure ,  that you love me . 	so will you confess ,  I am sure ,  that you love me . 
If I do so ,  it will be of more price ,  Being spoke behind your back ,  than to your face . 	If I do so ,  it will be more valuable ,  Being spoken behind your back than to your face . 
poor soul ,  thy face is much abus'd with tears . 	poor soul ,  your face is very wet with tears . 
the tears have got small victory by that ,  For it was bad enough before their spite . 	the tears have gotten a small victory by that ,  My face was bad enough before my tears took their revenge . 
thou wrong'st it more than tears with that report . 	you insult your face more than the tears did with that comment . 
that is no slander ,  sir ,  which is a truth; And what I spake ,  I spake it to my face . 	and what I spoke ,  I spoke to my face . 
thy face is mine ,  and thou hast sland'red it . 	your face is mine ,  and you’ve lied about it . 
It may be so ,  for it is not mine own . 	what you say may be true ,  because my face is not mine . 
are you at leisure ,  holy father ,  now ,  Or shall I come to you at evening mass ? 	are you busy now ,  holy father ,  Or shall I come to you at evening mass ? 
my leisure serves me ,  pensive daughter ,  now . 	I’m not busy now ,  nervous daughter . 
my lord ,  we must entreat the time alone . 	my lord ,  we must be alone now . 
god shield I should disturb devotion ! 	god forbid that I should interrupt religion ! 
juliet ,  on Thursday early will I rouse ye . 	juliet ,  I’ll wake you up early on Thursday early . 
till then ,  adieu ,  and keep this holy kiss . 	until then ,  goodbye ,  and keep this holy kiss . 
o ,  shut the door ! 	o ,  shut the door ! 
I hear thou must ,  and nothing may prorogue it ,  On Thursday next be married to this County . 	I hear that you must ,  and nothing can prevent it ,  Be married to this count on next Thursday . 
tell me not ,  friar ,  that thou hear'st of this ,  Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it . 	don’t tell me ,  friar ,  that you heard about this ,  Unless you can tell me how I can prevent it . 
If in thy wisdom thou canst give no help ,  Do thou but call my resolution wise And with this knife I'll help it presently . 	If ,  in your wisdom ,  you can’t help me ,  Only say that my solution is a wise one ,  And right now ,  with this knife ,  I'll help solve it . 
therefore ,  out of thy long - experienc'd time ,  Give me some present counsel; or ,  behold ,  'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife Shall play the umpire ,  arbitrating that Which the commission of thy years and art Could to no issue of true honour bring . 	therefore ,  from your many years of experience in these matters ,  Give me some advice now ,  or ,  look ,  Between my will to go the limit and me ,  this bloody knife Shall play the umpire ,  deciding the problem That your many years’ experience Could bring to an honorable resolution . 
be not so long to speak . 	don’t take long to speak . 
I long to die If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy . 	I want to die ,  If what you’re going to say is not a solution to this problem . 
hold ,  daughter . 	stop ,  daughter . 
I do spy a kind of hope ,  Which craves as desperate an execution As that is desperate which we would prevent . 	I do see a kind of hope ,  Which requires a plan as desperate As that event we want to prevent . 
If ,  rather than to marry County Paris ,  Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself ,  Then is it likely thou wilt undertake A thing like death to chide away this shame ,  That cop’st with death himself to scape from it; And ,  if thou dar'st ,  I'll give thee remedy . 	If ,  rather than to marry Count Paris You have the strength of will to kill yourself ,  Then is it likely you will try Something like death to chase this shame away ,  Something that will cover you with death himself ,  to escape from it ? 
hold ,  then . 	stay ,  then . 
go home ,  be merry ,  give consent To marry Paris . 	go home ,  be merry ,  and agree To marry Paris . 
wednesday is to - morrow . 	tomorrow is Wednesday . 
now ,  when the bridegroom in the morning comes To rouse thee from thy bed ,  there art thou dead . 	now ,  when the bridegroom comes in the morning To wake up from your bed ,  there you are ,  dead . 
In the mean time ,  against thou shalt awake ,  Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift; And hither shall he come; and he and I Will watch thy waking ,  and that very night Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua . 	and he and I Will watch you wake up ,  and that very night Romeo take you there ,  to Mantua . 
give me ,  give me ! 	give it to me ! 
o ,  tell not me of fear ! 	o ,  don’t tell me about fear ! 
hold ! 	stop it . 
I'll send a friar with speed To Mantua ,  with my letters to thy lord . 	I'll send a friar to Mantua Quickly ,  with my letters to Romeo . 
love give me strength ! 	love give me strength ! 
and strength shall help afford . 	and strength shall gives us help . 
farewell ,  dear father . 	farewell ,  dear father . 
so many guests invite as here are writ . 	Invite the many guests on this list . 
sirrah ,  go hire me twenty cunning cooks . 	servant ,  go hire me twenty great cooks . 
you shall have none ill ,  sir; for I'll try if they can lick their fingers . 	no one will get food poisoning ,  sir; I'll watch to see if they lick their fingers . 
how canst thou try them so ? 	how can watch them ? 
marry ,  sir ,  'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers . 	by Mary ,  sir ,  it’s a sick cook that cannot lick his own fingers . 
therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with me . 	therefore ,  he that cannot lick his fingers won’t come back with me . 
go ,  begone . 	go ,  get going . 
we shall be much unfurnish'd for this time . 	we will not have enough food and drink for this feast . 
what ,  is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence ? 	what ,  did my daughter go to Friar Lawrence ? 
ay ,  forsooth . 	yes ,  she really did . 
well ,  be may chance to do some good on her . 	well ,  maybe he’ll do her some good . 
a peevish self - will'd harlotry it is . 	a spiteful ,  self - willed ,  badly behaved child ,  she is . 
see where she comes from shrift with merry look . 	see how she comes from confession with a happy face . 
how now ,  my headstrong ? 	hello ,  my headstrong daughter ! 
where have you been gadding ? 	where have you been wandering ? 
where I have learnt me to repent the sin Of disobedient opposition To you and your behests ,  and am enjoin'd By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here To beg your pardon . 	where I have learned how to repent the sin Of my stubbornness and disobedience To you and your requests; and I am commanded By holy Lawrence to fall flat on the floor here ,  To beg your forgiveness . 
pardon ,  I beseech you ! 	forgive me ,  I beg you ! 
henceforward I am ever rul'd by you . 	from this point forward ,  I will always obey you . 
send for the County . 	send for the Count . 
go tell him of this . 	go tell him about this . 
I'll have this knot knit up to - morrow morning . 	I'll have this marriage done tomorrow morning . 
I met the youthful lord at Laurence’ cell And gave him what becomed love I might ,  Not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty . 	I met the youthful lord at Lawrence' cell; And gave him what proper love I might ,  Not overstepping the bounds of modesty . 
why ,  I am glad on't . 	why ,  I am glad ! 
this is well . 	this is great . 
stand up . 	stand up . 
this is as't should be . 	this is as it should be . 
let me see the County . 	let me see the Count . 
ay ,  marry ,  go ,  I say ,  and fetch him hither . 	yes ,  by Mary ,  go ,  I tell you ,  and have him come here . 
now ,  afore God ,  this reverend holy friar ,  All our whole city is much bound to him . 	now ,  before God ,  everyone in our whole city is much bound to This reverend holy friar . 
nurse ,  will you go with me into my closet To help me sort such needful ornaments As you think fit to furnish me to - morrow ? 	nurse ,  will you go with me to my closet ,  And help me pick out the things You think I will need for tomorrow ? 
no ,  not till Thursday . 	no ,  not until Thursday . 
there is time enough . 	there’s plenty of time . 
go ,  nurse ,  go with her . 	go ,  nurse ,  go with her . 
we'll to church to - morrow . 	we're going to church tomorrow . 
we shall be short in our provision . 	we are not going to have enough food . 
tis now near night . 	It’s almost night now . 
tush ,  I will stir about ,  And all things shall be well ,  I warrant thee ,  wife . 	I will work it out ,  And everything will be fine ,  I guarantee you ,  wife . 
go thou to Juliet ,  help to deck up her . 	you go to Juliet ,  help her ready . 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  hey ! 
they are all forth; well ,  I will walk myself To County Paris ,  to prepare him up Against to - morrow . 	well ,  I will walk myself over To Count Paris’ house ,  to prepare him For tomorrow . 
my heart is wondrous light ,  Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd . 	my heart is wonderfully light Since this same wayward girl is so reformed . 
what ,  are you busy ,  ho ? 	what ,  are you busy ,  hello ? 
need you my help ? 	do you need my help ? 
no ,  madam; we have cull'd such necessaries As are behoveful for our state to - morrow . 	no ,  madam; we have selected the necessary things that Are useful for our event tomorrow . 
so please you ,  let me now be left alone ,  And let the nurse this night sit up with you; For I am sure you have your hands full all In this so sudden business . 	so please ,  leave me alone now ,  And let the nurse sit up with you this night; For I am sure you have your hands full In this so sudden business . 
good night . 	good night . 
get thee to bed ,  and rest; for thou hast need . 	go to bed and rest ,  because you need to rest . 
farewell ! 	farewell ! 
god knows when we shall meet again . 	god knows when we shall meet again . 
I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins That almost freezes up the heat of life . 	I have a faint ,  cold fear that scares my veins And it almost freezes up the heat of life . 
I'll call them back again to comfort me . 	I'll call them back again to comfort me; Nurse ! 
nurse ! — What should she do here ? 	what is she going to do here ? 
my dismal scene I needs must act alone . 	I must act my dreadful scene alone . 
come ,  vial . 	come ,  vial . 
what if this mixture do not work at all ? 	what if this mixture doesn’t work at all ? 
shall I be married then to - morrow morning ? 	shall I be married ,  then ,  tomorrow morning ? 
no ,  No ! 	no ,  No ! 
this shall forbid it . 	this dagger shall forbid it . 
lie thou there . 	you lie there . 
what if it be a poison which the friar Subtly hath ministr'd to have me dead ,  Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd Because he married me before to Romeo ? 	what if it be a poison ,  which the friar Has secretly given me to have me dead ,  so that he shouldn’t be dishonored Because he married me to Romeo before Paris ? 
I will not entertain so bad a thought . 	I won’t entertain such a bad thought . 
how if ,  when I am laid into the tomb ,  I wake before the time that Romeo Come to redeem me ? 	what if ,  when I am laid in the tomb ,  I wake up before the time that Romeo Is supposed to come and get me ? 
there's a fearful point ! 	that’s a scary thought ! 
shall I not then be stifled in the vault ,  To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in ,  And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes ? 	the ,  shouldn’t I smother in the vault ,  Where there is no fresh air ,  And I will die there ,  strangled ,  before my Romeo comes ? 
o ,  look ! 	o ,  look ! 
methinks I see my cousin's ghost Seeking out Romeo ,  that did spit his body Upon a rapier's point . 	I think I see my cousin's ghost Looking for Romeo who pierced his body With a sword's point . 
stay ,  Tybalt ,  stay ! 	wait ,  Tybalt ,  wait ! 
romeo ,  I come ! 	romeo ,  I’m coming ! 
this do I drink to thee . 	I drink this vial to you . 
hold ,  take these keys and fetch more spices ,  Nurse . 	hold on ,  take these keys and go get more spices ,  nurse . 
they call for dates and quinces in the pastry . 	they’re asking for dates and quinces in the pastry . 
come ,  stir ,  stir ,  stir ! 	come on ,  let’s get going ! 
the second cock hath crow'd ,  The curfew bell hath rung ,  'tis three o'clock . 	the second rooster has crowed ,  The curfew bell has rung ,  It’s three o'clock . 
look to the bak'd meats ,  good Angelica; Spare not for cost . 	don’t worry about the cost . 
faith ,  you'll be sick to - morrow For this night's watching . 	In faith ,  you'll be sick tomorrow Because you stayed up all night ,  supervising . 
no ,  not a whit . 	no ,  not a whit . 
ay ,  you have been a mouse - hunt in your time; But I will watch you from such watching now . 	yeah ,  you have been a real weasel in your time ,  But I will watch you to keep you from staying up all night now . 
a jealous hood ,  a jealous hood ! 	a jealous spy ,  a jealous spy ! 
now ,  fellow ,  what is there ? 	now ,  fellow ,  What's there ? 
things for the cook ,  sir; but I know not what . 	things for the cook ,  sir; but I don’t know what . 
make haste ,  make haste . 	hurry up ,  hurry up !  . 
sirrah ,  fetch drier logs . 	servant ,  go get drier logs . 
call Peter; he will show thee where they are . 	call Peter ,  he’ll show you where they are . 
I have a head ,  sir ,  that will find out logs And never trouble Peter for the matter . 	I have a head ,  sir ,  that will find out where the logs are ,  I don’t have to bother Peter . 
mass ,  and well said; a merry whoreson ,  ha ! 	by the Mass ,  well said; a merry bastard ,  ha ! 
thou shalt be loggerhead . Good faith , 'tis day . 	you shall be a  “ logger - head .  ”  Good faith ,  it’s morning . 
the County will be here with music straight ,  For so he said he would . 	the Count will be here soon with music ,  Because he said he would . 
I hear him near . 	I hear him nearby . 
nurse ! 	nurse ! 
wife ! 	wife ! 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  hello ! 
what ,  nurse ,  I say ! 	what ,  nurse ,  I say ! 
I'll go and chat with Paris . 	I'll go and chat with Paris . 
hie ,  make haste ,  Make haste ! 	quickly ,  hurry ,  Hurry . 
mistress ! 	mistress ! 
what ,  mistress ! 	what ,  mistress ! 
juliet ! 	juliet ! 
fast ,  I warrant her ,  she . 	fast asleep ,  I guarantee her . 
why ,  lamb ! 	why ,  lamb ! 
why ,  lady ! 	why ,  lady ! 
fie ,  you slug - abed ! 	for shame ,  you lazy loafer ! 
why ,  love ,  I say ! 	why ,  love ,  I say ! 
madam ! 	madam ! 
sweetheart ! 	sweetheart ! 
why ,  bride ! 	why ,  Bride ! 
what ,  not a word ? 	what ,  not a word ? 
you take your pennyworths now ! 	you get your money’s worth of sleep now . 
sleep for a week; for the next night ,  I warrant ,  The County Paris hath set up his rest That you shall rest but little . 	sleep for a week ,  because tonight ,  I guarantee ,  Count Paris has set up his rest so That you shall rest but little . 
god forgive me ! 	god forgive me ! 
I needs must wake her . 	I must wake her up . 
madam ,  madam ,  madam ! 	madam ,  madam ,  madam ! 
ay ,  let the County take you in your bed ! 	yes ,  let the count get you out of your bed . 
will it not be ? 	what ,  you’re dressed ! 
I must needs wake you . 	I must wake you up . 
lady ! 	lady ! 
lady ! 	lady ! 
lady ! 	lady ! 
alas ,  alas ! 	for pity’s sake ,  for pity’s sake ! 
help ,  help ! 	help ,  help ! 
my lady's dead ! 	my lady's dead ! 
o well - a - day that ever I was born ! 	o ,  pitiful day that I was ever born ! 
some aqua - vitae ,  ho ! 	some whiskey ,  hello ! 
my lord ! 	my lord ! 
my lady ! 	my lady ! 
what noise is here ? 	what noise is here ? 
o lamentable day ! 	o lamentable day ! 
what is the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
look ,  look ! 	look ,  look ! 
o heavy day ! 	o heavy day ! 
o me ,  O me ! 	o me ,  O me ! 
my child ,  my only life ! 	my child ,  my only life ! 
revive ,  look up ,  or I will die with thee ! 	wake up ,  look up ,  or I will die with you ! 
help ,  help ! 	help ,  help ! 
call help . 	call help . 
for shame ,  bring Juliet forth; her lord is come . 	for shame ,  bring Juliet out; her lord is here . 
she's dead ,  deceas'd; she's dead ! 	she's dead ,  deceased ! 
alack the day ! 	she's dead ,  pitiful day ! 
alack the day ,  she's dead ,  she's dead ,  she's dead ! 	pitiful day ,  she's dead ,  she's dead ,  she's dead ! 
ha ! 	ha ! 
let me see her . 	let me see her . 
out alas ! 	for mercy’s sake ! 
death lies on her like an untimely frost Upon the sweetest flower of all the field . 	death lies on her like an untimely frost On the sweetest flower in all the fields . 
o lamentable day ! 	o lamentable day ! 
o woful time ! 	o sorrowful time ! 
death ,  that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail ,  Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak . 	death ,  that has taken her away to make me wail ,  Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak . 
ready to go ,  but never to return . 	ready to go ,  but never to return . 
o son ,  the night before thy wedding day Hath Death lain with thy wife . 	o son ,  the night before your wedding day Death has slept with your bride . 
see ,  there she lies ,  Flower as she was ,  deflowered by him . 	she lies there ,  Like the flower that she was ,  her virginity taken by him . 
I will die And leave him all . 	I will die And leave him my entire estate . 
life ,  living ,  all is Death's . 	life ,  living — Death has it all . 
have I thought long to see this morning's face ,  And doth it give me such a sight as this ? 	I have long thought I would see this morning's face ,  And does it give me such a sight as this ? 
accurs'd ,  unhappy ,  wretched ,  hateful day ! 	cursed ,  unhappy ,  wretched ,  hateful day ! 
most miserable hour that e'er time saw In lasting labour of his pilgrimage ! 	most miserable hour that time ever saw In lasting work of his travels ! 
but one ,  poor one ,  one poor and loving child ,  But one thing to rejoice and solace in ,  And cruel Death hath catch'd it from my sight ! 	but one ,  poor one ,  one poor and loving child ,  But one thing to rejoice and take comfort in ,  And cruel death has taken it from my sight ! 
o woe ! 	o woe ! 
o woeful ,  woeful ,  woeful day ! 	o woeful ,  woeful ,  woeful day ! 
most lamentable day ,  most woeful day That ever ever I did yet behold ! 	most lamentable day ,  most woeful day That ever ,  ever ,  I have seen ! 
o day ! 	o day ! 
o day ! 	o day ! 
o day ! 	o day ! 
o hateful day ! 	o hateful day ! 
never was seen so black a day as this . 	a day as black as this has never been seen ! 
o woeful day ! 	o woeful day ! 
o woeful day ! 	o woeful day ! 
beguil'd ,  divorced ,  wronged ,  spited ,  slain ! 	deceived ,  divorced ,  wronged ,  spited ,  slain ! 
o love ! 	o love ! 
o life ! 	o life ! 
not life ,  but love in death ! 	not life ,  but love in death ! 
despis'd ,  distressed ,  hated ,  martyr'd ,  kill'd ! 	despised ,  distressed ,  hated ,  martyred ,  killed ! 
uncomfortable time ,  why cam'st thou now To murder ,  murder our solemnity ? 	uncomfortable time ,  why do you come now To murder ,  murder our solemnity ? 
o child ! 	o child ! 
o child ! 	o child ! 
my soul ,  and not my child ! 	my soul ,  and not my child ! 
dead art thou ,  dead ! 	dead you are ,  dead ! 
alack ,  my child is dead ,  And with my child my joys are buried ! 	for pity ,  my child is dead; And ,  with my child ,  my joys are buried ! 
peace ,  ho ,  for shame ! 	peace ,  ho ,  for shame ! 
confusion's cure lives not In these confusions . 	confusion's cure doesn’t live In these confusions . 
your part in her you could not keep from death ,  But heaven keeps his part in eternal life . 	your part in her you could not keep from death ,  But heaven keeps his part in eternal life . 
o ,  in this love ,  you love your child so ill That you run mad ,  seeing that she is well . 	o ,  in this kind of love ,  you love your child so badly That you are going crazy ,  seeing that she is well . 
dry up your tears and stick your rosemary On this fair corse ,  and ,  as the custom is ,  In all her best array bear her to church; For though fond nature bids us all lament ,  Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment . 	dry up your tears ,  and stick your rosemary On this fair corpse; and ,  as the custom is ,  In all her best array ,  carry her to church ,  Because ,  although foolish nature bids us all to grieve ,  Still nature's tears are sanity's happiness . 
sir ,  go you in; and ,  madam ,  go with him; And go ,  Sir Paris . 	sir ,  you go inside ,  and ,  madam ,  go with him; And go ,  Sir Paris . 
every one prepare To follow this fair corse unto her grave . 	every one should prepare To follow this beautiful corpse to her grave . 
faith ,  we may put up our pipes and be gone . 	In faith ,  we may put up our pipes and go home . 
ay ,  by my troth ,  the case may be amended . 	yeah ,  by my truth ,  the case may be amended . 
not a dump we ! 	we’re not playing a merry tune . 
tis no time to play now . 	this is no time to play . 
you will not then ? 	you won’t play then ? 
no . 	no . 
I will then give it you soundly . 	then ,  I’ll give it to you as payment . 
what will you give us ? 	what will you give us ? 
then will I give you the serving - creature . 	then will I give you the serving - creature . 
then will I lay the serving - creature's dagger on your pate . 	then I will lay the serving - creature's dagger on your head . 
I will carry no crotchets . 	I won’t any hooked instruments . 
I'll re you ,  I'll fa you . 	I'll  “ re ”  you ,  I'll  “ fa ”  you . 
do you note me ? 	do you note me ? 
an you re us and fa us ,  you note us . 	If you  “ re ”  us and  “ fa ”  us ,  you note us . 
pray you put up your dagger ,  and put out your wit . 	please put away your dagger ,  and pull out your wit . 
then have at you with my wit ! 	then ,  I’ll attack you with my wit ! 
I will dry - beat you with an iron wit ,  and put up my iron dagger . 	I will beat you severely with an iron wit ,  and put away my iron dagger . 
answer me like men . 	answer me like men . 
marry ,  sir ,  because silver hath a sweet sound . 	by Mary ,  sir ,  because silver has a sweet sound . 
pretty ! 	pretty ! 
what say you ,  Hugh Rebeck ? 	what do you say ,  Hugh Rebeck ? 
I say ‘silver sound’ because musicians sound for silver . 	I say  “ silver sound ”  because musicians makes sounds for silver . 
pretty too ! 	pretty too ! 
what say you ,  James Soundpost ? 	what do you say ,  James Soundpost ? 
faith ,  I know not what to say . 	faith ,  I don’t know what to say . 
o ,  I cry you mercy ! 	o ,  have mercy ! 
you are the singer . 	you are the singer . 
I will say for you . 	I will say it for you . 
It is ‘music with her silver sound’ because musi -  cians have no gold for sounding . 	It is  “ music with her silver sound ”  because musicians have no gold for making sounds . 
then music with her silver sound With speedy help doth lend redress . ’ What a pestilent knave is this same ! 	then music with her silver sound  ” With speedy help gives relief from sorrow .  ”  What kind of an annoying knave is this guy ?  ! 
hang him ,  Jack ! 	the hell with him ,  Jack ! 
come ,  we'll in here ,  tarry for the mourners ,  and stay dinner . 	come ,  we'll go in here ,  wait for the mourners ,  and stay for dinner . 
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep ,  My dreams presage some joyful news at hand . 	If I may trust what happens while I sleep ,  My dreams predict some joyful news is coming . 
my bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne ,  And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts . 	my heart is very light in my chest ,  And all this day an unusually happy spirit Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts . 
I dreamt my lady came and found me dead (Strange dream that gives a dead man leave to think ! 	I dreamed that my lady came and found me dead ,  Strange dream ,  that gives a dead man a second thought ! 
and breath'd such life with kisses in my lips That I reviv'd and was an emperor . 	and she breathed such life with her kisses on my lips ,  That I was brought back to life ,  and I was an emperor . 
ah me ! 	ah me ! 
how sweet is love itself possess'd ,  When but love's shadows are so rich in joy ! 	how sweet love is when it is yours ,  When only love's shadows are so rich in joy ! 
news from Verona ! 	news from Verona ! 
how now ,  Balthasar ? 	how are you ,  Balthasar ? 
dost thou not bring me letters from the friar ? 	don’t you bring me letters from the friar ? 
how doth my lady ? 	how is my lady doing ? 
Is my father well ? 	Is my father well ? 
how fares my Juliet ? 	how fares my Juliet ? 
that I ask again ,  For nothing can be ill if she be well . 	I’ll ask that again; For nothing can be wrong if she is well . 
then she is well ,  and nothing can be ill . 	then she is well ,  and nothing can be wrong . 
her body sleeps in Capels’ monument ,  And her immortal part with angels lives . 	her body sleeps in the Capulet tomb ,  And her soul lives with the angels . 
I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault And presently took post to tell it you . 	I saw her burial in her relative's vault ,  And the I rushed to tell you . 
o ,  pardon me for bringing these ill news ,  Since you did leave it for my office ,  sir . 	o ,  forgive me for bringing you this sad news ,  Since you did leave it all up to me ,  sir . 
Is it e'en so ? 	Is it so ? 
then I defy you ,  stars ! 	then ,  I defy you ,  stars ! 
thou knowest my lodging . 	you know where I live . 
get me ink and paper And hire posthorses . 	get me ink and paper ,  And hire some horses . 
I will hence to - night . 	I will leave here tonight . 
I do beseech you ,  sir ,  have patience . 	I beg you ,  sir ,  have patience . 
your looks are pale and wild and do import Some misadventure . 	you look pale and wild ,  and these signs Some bad luck . 
tush ,  thou art deceiv'd . 	you’re mistaken . 
leave me and do the thing I bid thee do . 	leave me ,  and do as I ask you . 
hast thou no letters to me from the friar ? 	don’t you letters to me from the friar ? 
no ,  my good lord . 	no ,  my good lord . 
no matter . 	no matter . 
get thee gone And hire those horses . 	get going ,  And hire those horses . 
I'll be with thee straight . 	I'll be with you right away . 
well ,  Juliet ,  I will lie with thee to - night . 	well ,  Juliet ,  I’ll sleep with you tonight . 
let's see for means . 	let's figure out how to do this . 
o mischief ,  thou art swift To enter in the thoughts of desperate men ! 	o mischief ,  you are quick To enter into the thoughts of desperate men ! 
I do remember an apothecary ,  And hereabouts he dwells ,  which late I noted In tatt'red weeds ,  with overwhelming brows ,  Culling of simples . 	I do remember a pharmacist ,  And lives near here ,  who I noticed was dressed in In tattered weeds ,  with overwhelming eyebrows ,  Choosing the simple life . 
meagre were his looks ,  Sharp misery had worn him to the bones; And in his needy shop a tortoise hung ,  An alligator stuff'd ,  and other skins Of ill - shaped fishes; and about his shelves A beggarly account of empty boxes ,  Green earthen pots ,  bladders ,  and musty seeds ,  Remnants of packthread ,  and old cakes of roses Were thinly scattered ,  to make up a show . 	he looked very thin ,  As if sharp misery had worn him down to the bones; And in his poor shop a turtle was hanging ,  And a stuffed alligator ,  and other skins Of ill - shaped fishes ,  and on his shelves he had A poverty - stricken collection of empty boxes ,  and Green earthen pots ,  animal bladders ,  and musty smelling seeds ,  Remnants of leftover twine ,  and old cakes of roses ,  Were thinly scattered around ,  to make up a display . 
noting this penury ,  to myself I said ,  ‘An if a man did need a poison now Whose sale is present death in Mantua ,  Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him . ’ O ,  this same thought did but forerun my need ,  And this same needy man must sell it me . 	noting this poverty ,  I said to myself ,   ” If a man did need a poison now ,   ” The sale of which is punished by death in Mantua ,   ” Here lives a poor wretch would sell it to him .  ”  O ,  this same thought only predicted my need ,  And this same needy man must sell it to me . 
as I remember ,  this should be the house . 	as I remember ,  this should be the house . 
being holiday ,  the beggar's shop is shut . 	being a holiday ,  the beggar's shop is closed . 
what ,  ho ! 	what ,  hello ! 
apothecary ! 	pharmacist ! 
who calls so loud ? 	who is calling so loudly ? 
come hither ,  man . 	come here ,  man . 
let me have A dram of poison ,  such soon - speeding gear As will disperse itself through all the veins That the life - weary taker may fall dead ,  And that the trunk may be discharg'd of breath As violently as hasty powder fir'd Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb . 	let me have A small vial of poison ,  such quickly acting medicine That it will disperse itself throughout all the veins In order that the life - weary taker may fall dead ,  And that the body may suffocate As violently as speedy gunpowder Hurries a bullet from a gun barrel . 
such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law Is death to any he that utters them . 	I have such deadly drugs ,  but Mantua's law Gives the death penalty to anybody who sells them . 
art thou so bare and full of wretchedness And fearest to die ? 	you are so naked and full of misery And you’re afraid to die ? 
my poverty but not my will consents . 	my poverty agrees to take it ,  but not my will . 
I pay thy poverty and not thy will . 	I pay your poverty ,  and not your will . 
put this in any liquid thing you will And drink it off ,  and if you had the strength Of twenty men ,  it would dispatch you straight . 	put this poison into any liquid you want ,  And drink it all; and ,  if you had the strength Of twenty men ,  it would kill you right away . 
I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none . 	I sell you poison; you haven’t sold me any . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
buy food and get thyself in flesh . 	buy food and put on some weight . 
holy Franciscan friar ,  brother ,  ho ! 	holy Franciscan friar ! 
this same should be the voice of Friar John . 	this is the voice of Friar John . 
welcome from Mantua . 	welcome from Mantua . 
what says Romeo ? 	what does Romeo say ? 
or ,  if his mind be writ ,  give me his letter . 	or ,  if he wrote his mind ,  give me his letter . 
going to find a barefoot brother out ,  One of our order ,  to associate me Here in this city visiting the sick ,  And finding him ,  the searchers of the town ,  Suspecting that we both were in a house Where the infectious pestilence did reign ,  Seal'd up the doors ,  and would not let us forth ,  So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd . 	going to find a fellow brother ,  One of our order ,  to help me Visit the sick here in this city ,  And finding him ,  the searchers of the town ,  Suspecting that we both were in a house Where the infectious plague was ,  Sealed up the doors ,  and wouldn’t let us leave; So that my speed to Mantua was delayed by that . 
who bare my letter ,  then ,  to Romeo ? 	the ,  who took my letter to Romeo ? 
I could not send it—here it is again— Nor get a messenger to bring it thee ,  So fearful were they of infection . 	I couldn’t deliver it ,  so here it is again ,  I couldn’t even get a messenger to bring it back to you ,  They were so afraid of getting infected with the plague . 
unhappy fortune ! 	very bad luck ! 
by my brotherhood ,  The letter was not nice ,  but full of charge ,  Of dear import; and the neglecting it May do much danger . 	by my brotherhood ,  The letter was not a social one ,  but a message Of great importance ,  and failing to deliver it May do a lot of damage . 
brother ,  I'll go and bring it thee . 	brother ,  I'll go and bring it to you . 
she will beshrew me much that Romeo Hath had no notice of these accidents; But I will write again to Mantua ,  And keep her at my cell till Romeo come— Poor living corse ,  clos'd in a dead man's tomb ! 	she will really curse me that Romeo Has had no news of these events; But I will write to him again in Mantua ,  And keep her at my cell until Romeo comes to get her; Poor living corpse ,  closed in a dead man's tomb ! 
give me thy torch ,  boy . 	give me your torch ,  boy . 
hence ,  and stand aloof . 	go away ,  and stand over there . 
whistle then to me ,  As signal that thou hear'st something approach . 	then whistle to me As signal that you hear something approaching . 
give me those flowers . 	give me those flowers . 
do as I bid thee ,  go . 	go ,  do what I have told you . 
I am almost afraid to stand alone Here in the churchyard; yet I will adventure . 	I am almost afraid to stand alone Here in the churchyard ,  but I will stay . 
the obsequies that I for thee will keep Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep . 	I will keep saying the funeral prayers for you ,  and I will come Every night to put flowers on your grave and weep . 
the boy gives warning something doth approach . 	the boy gives the warning something is approaching . 
what cursed foot wanders this way to - night To cross my obsequies and true love's rite ? 	what cursed foot wanders this way tonight ,  To disturb my funeral prayers and the rites of true love ? 
what ,  with a torch ? 	what ,  with a torch ! 
muffle me ,  night ,  a while . 	night ,  hide me awhile . 
give me that mattock and the wrenching iron . 	give me that chisel - edged pick and the iron wrench . 
hold ,  take this letter . 	stop ,  take this letter . 
early in the morning See thou deliver it to my lord and father . 	first thing in the morning ,  See that you deliver it to my lord and father . 
why I descend into this bed of death Is partly to behold my lady's face ,  But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger A precious ring—a ring that I must use In dear employment . 	why I’m going down into this tomb Is partly to see my lady's face ,  But mostly to take a precious ring from her dead finger ,  a ring that I must use In a very special errand . 
but if thou ,  jealous ,  dost return to pry In what I further shall intend to do ,  By heaven ,  I will tear thee joint by joint And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs . 	but if you return ,  jealous ,  and try to find out What I intend to do ,  By heaven ,  I will tear you limb from limb ,  And scatter your limbs all over this hungry churchyard ! 
the time and my intents are savage - wild ,  More fierce and more inexorable far Than empty tigers or the roaring sea . 	the time and my intents are savage and wild ,  So much ore fierce and more determined Than hungry tigers or the roaring sea . 
I will be gone ,  sir ,  and not trouble you . 	I’ll go ,  sir ,  and not trouble you . 
so shalt thou show me friendship . 	this way you show me friendship . 
take thou that . 	you take that . 
live ,  and be prosperous; and farewell ,  good fellow . 	live ,  and be prosperous ,  and ,  farewell ,  good fellow . 
for all this same ,  I'll hide me hereabout . 	just the same ,  I'll hide close by . 
his looks I fear ,  and his intents I doubt . 	I fear his looks ,  and I doubt his reasons . 
thou detestable maw ,  thou womb of death ,  Gorg'd with the dearest morsel of the earth ,  Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open ,  And in despite I'll cram thee with more food . 	you hateful belly ,  you womb of death ,  Stuffed full with the dearest morsel of the earth ,  I will force your rotten jaws to open ,  And ,  in spite ,  I'll cram you fuller with more food ! 
this is that banish'd haughty Montague That murdered my love's cousin—with which grief It is supposed the fair creature died— And here is come to do some villanous shame To the dead bodies . 	this man is that banished ,  arrogant Montague That murdered my love's cousin ,  by which grief ,  It is supposed ,  the beautiful creature died ,  And he’s come here to desecrate The dead bodies . 
I will apprehend him . 	I will seize him . 
stop thy unhallowed toil ,  vile Montague ! 	stop your unholy work ,  vile Montague ! 
can vengeance be pursu'd further than death ? 	can vengeance be pursued any further than death ? 
condemned villain ,  I do apprehend thee . 	condemned villain ,  I arrest you . 
obey ,  and go with me; for thou must die . 	obey ,  and go with me ,  because you must die . 
I beseech thee ,  youth ,  Put not another sin upon my head By urging me to fury . 	I beg you ,  youth ,  Don’t put another sin on my head By urging me to fight . 
o ,  be gone ! 	o ,  go away ! 
by heaven ,  I love thee better than myself ,  For I come hither arm'd against myself . 	by heaven ,  I love you better than I love myself ,  Because I came here only armed against myself . 
live ,  and hereafter say A madman's mercy bid thee run away . 	live ,  and later you will say ,  A madman's mercy made you run away . 
I do defy thy conjuration And apprehend thee for a felon here . 	I defy your solemn appeal ,  And I here arrest you as a felon . 
wilt thou provoke me ? 	will you still provoke me ? 
then have at thee ,  boy ! 	then ,  I’ll get you ,  boy ! 
o Lord ,  they fight ! 	o lord ,  they’re fighting ! 
I will go call the watch . 	I’ll go call the guards . 
o ,  I am slain ! 	o ,  I’m killed ! 
If thou be merciful ,  Open the tomb ,  lay me with Juliet . 	If you are merciful ,  Open the tomb ,  lay me with Juliet . 
In faith ,  I will . 	In faith ,  I will . 
let me peruse this face . 	let me see this face . 
mercutio's kinsman ,  noble County Paris ! 	mercutio's relative ,  noble Count Paris ! 
what said my man when my betossed soul Did not attend him as we rode ? 	what my man say ,  when my soul was tossing and turning And I didn’t pay attention to him as we rode ? 
I think He told me Paris should have married Juliet . 	I think He told me Paris was going to marry Juliet . 
said he not so ? 	did he say it ? 
or did I dream it so ? 	or did I dream it ? 
or am I mad ,  hearing him talk of Juliet To think it was so ? 	or I’m crazy to think it was so ,  Hearing him talk of Juliet  ? 
o ,  give me thy hand ,  One writ with me in sour misfortune's book ! 	o ,  give me your hand ,  One written along with me in sour luck's book ! 
o ,  no ,  a lantern ,  slaughtr'd youth ,  For here lies Juliet ,  and her beauty makes This vault a feasting presence full of light . 	o ,  no ,  a lantern ,  slaughtered youth ,  Because Juliet lies here ,  and her beauty makes This tomb a party room full of light . 
death ,  lie thou there ,  by a dead man interr'd . 	death ,  you lie there ,  buried by a dead man . 
how oft when men are at the point of death Have they been merry ! 	how often ,  when men are at the point of death Have they been happy ?  ! 
which their keepers call A lightning before death . 	which their keepers call A lightening before death . 
o ,  how may I Call this a lightning ? 	o ,  how may I Call this a lightening ? 
o my love ! 	o my love ! 
my wife ! 	my wife ! 
death ,  that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath ,  Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty . 	death ,  that has sucked the honey of your breath ,  Has had no power yet on your beauty . 
thou art not conquer'd . 	you’re not conquered . 
beauty's ensign yet Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks ,  And death's pale flag is not advanced there . 	beauty's officer Is still red on your lips and in your cheeks ,  And death's pale flag is not yet planted there . 
tybalt ,  liest thou there in thy bloody sheet ? 	tybalt ,  do you lie there in your bloody sheet ? 
o ,  what more favour can I do to thee Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain To sunder his that was thine enemy ? 	o ,  what other favor can I do for you Than to end the youth of your enemy with the same hand that cut your youth half ? 
forgive me ,  cousin . 	forgive me ,  cousin ! 
ah ,  dear Juliet ,  Why art thou yet so fair ? 	ah ,  dear Juliet ,  Why are you still so beautiful ? 
shall I believe That unsubstantial Death is amorous ,  And that the lean abhorred monster keeps Thee here in dark to be his paramour ? 	shall I believe That death that has no substance is a lover ,  And that the lean ugly monster keeps You here in dark to be his mistress ? 
for fear of that I still will stay with thee And never from this palace of dim night Depart again . 	because I’m afraid of that ,  I still will stay with you ,  And never leave this palace of dim night Again . 
here ,  here will I remain With worms that are thy chambermaids . 	here ,  here I will remain With the worms that are your maids . 
o ,  here Will I set up my everlasting rest And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars From this world - wearied flesh . 	o ,  here I will set up my everlasting rest ,  And shake off the bonds of unlucky stars From my world - wearied body . 
eyes ,  look your last ! 	eyes ,  look your last ! 
arms ,  take your last embrace ! 	arms ,  take your last embrace ! 
and ,  lips ,  O you The doors of breath ,  seal with a righteous kiss A dateless bargain to engrossing death ! 	and ,  lips ,  O you The doors of breath ,  seal a timeless bargain With death ,  who will take everything ,  with a righteous kiss ! 
thou desperate pilot ,  now at once run on The dashing rocks thy seasick weary bark ! 	you desperate sea captain ,  now run your sea - sick weary ship Onto the dashing rocks all at once ! 
here's to my love ! 	here's to my love ! 
drinks . 	drinks . 
thy drugs are quick . 	your drugs are quick . 
thus with a kiss I die . 	so ,  I die with a kiss . 
saint Francis be my speed ! 	saint Francis be my speed ! 
how oft to - night Have my old feet stumbled at graves ! 	how often tonight Have my old feet stumbled over graves ! 
who's there ? 	who's there ? 
here's one ,  a friend ,  and one that knows you well . 	It’s me ,  a friend ,  and one that knows you well . 
bliss be upon you ! 	blessings on you ! 
tell me ,  good my friend ,  What torch is yond that vainly lends his light To grubs and eyeless skulls ? 	tell me ,  good my friend ,  What torch is over there that wastes giving his light To grubs and eyeless skulls ? 
as I discern ,  It burneth in the Capels’ monument . 	as far as I can see ,  It burns in the Capulet’s tomb . 
It doth so ,  holy sir; and there's my master ,  One that you love . 	It does ,  holy sir; and my master is in there ,  One that you love . 
who is it ? 	who is it ? 
romeo . 	romeo . 
how long hath he been there ? 	how long has he been in there ? 
full half an hour . 	a full half hour . 
go with me to the vault . 	go with me to the tomb . 
stay then; I'll go alone . 	stay then; I'll go alone . 
fear comes upon me . 	fear comes over me . 
o ,  much I fear some ill unlucky thing . 	o ,  I’m very much afraid that some evil ,  unlucky thing has happened . 
as I did sleep under this yew tree here ,  I dreamt my master and another fought ,  And that my master slew him . 	as I was sleeping under this yew tree here ,  I dreamed that my master and another fought ,  And that my master killed him . 
romeo ! 	romeo ! 
what mean these masterless and gory swords To lie discolour'd by this place of peace ? 	what do these master - less and gory swords mean By lying here with blood on them in this place of peace ? 
romeo ! 	romeo ! 
o ,  pale ! 	o ,  you’re pale ! 
who else ? 	who else ? 
what ,  Paris too ? 	what ,  Paris too ? 
and steep'd in blood ? 	and you’re covered in blood ? 
ah ,  what an unkind hour Is guilty of this lamentable chance ! 	ah ,  what an unlucky hour Is guilty of this lamentable event ! 
the lady stirs . 	the lady is waking up . 
o comfortable friar ! 	o comfortable friar ! 
where is my lord ? 	where is my lord ? 
I do remember well where I should be ,  And there I am . 	I remember well where I should be ,  And here I am . 
where is my Romeo ? 	where is my Romeo ? 
I hear some noise . 	I hear some noise . 
a greater power than we can contradict Hath thwarted our intents . 	a greater power than we can contradict Has opposed our plans . 
come ,  come away . 	come ,  come away ! 
thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead; And Paris too . 	your husband in your bosom lies dead there ,  And Paris too . 
come ,  I'll dispose of thee Among a sisterhood of holy nuns . 	come ,  I'll hide you Among a sisterhood of holy nuns . 
stay not to question ,  for the watch is coming . 	don’t stay to question what happened ,  because the guard is coming . 
come ,  go ,  good Juliet . 	come ,  go ,  good Juliet . 
I dare no longer stay . 	I don’t dare to stay longer . 
go ,  get thee hence ,  for I will not away . 	go ,  get away from here ,  because I will not leave . 
what's here ? 	what's here ? 
a cup ,  clos'd in my true love's hand ? 	a cup closed in my true love's hand ? 
poison ,  I see ,  hath been his timeless end . 	poison ,  I see ,  has been his timeless end . 
o churl ! 	o husband ! 
drunk all ,  and left no friendly drop To help me after ? 	you drank it all and Didn’t leave just a friendly drop To help me join you ? 
I will kiss thy lips . 	I will kiss your lips . 
haply some poison yet doth hang on them To make me die with a restorative . 	maybe some poison is still on them ,  To make me die by restoring me . 
thy lips are warm ! 	your lips are warm ! 
lead ,  boy . 	lead ,  boy . 
which way ? 	which way is it ? 
yea ,  noise ? 	yes ,  noise ? 
then I'll be brief . 	then I'll be brief . 
o happy dagger ! 	o happy dagger ! 
go ,  some of you; whoe'er you find attach . 	go ,  some of you ,  whoever you find ,  arrest . 
pitiful sight ! 	pitiful sight ! 
here lies the County slain; And Juliet bleeding ,  warm ,  and newly dead ,  Who here hath lain this two days buried . 	here the Count lies slain ,  And Juliet bleeding ,  warm ,  and newly dead ,  Who has been buried in this tomb for two days . 
we see the ground whereon these woes do lie ,  But the true ground of all these piteous woes We cannot without circumstance descry . 	we see the ground on which these sorrows lie ,  But we cannot find the true ground of all these piteous woes Without knowing what happened . 
here's Romeo's man . 	here's Romeo's man . 
we found him in the churchyard . 	we found him in the churchyard . 
hold him in safety till the Prince come hither . 	hold him in safety until the prince arrives . 
here is a friar that trembles ,  sighs ,  and weeps . 	here is a friar ,  trembling ,  sighing ,  and weeping . 
we took this mattock and this spade from him As he was coming from this churchyard side . 	we took this chisel - edged pick and this shovel from him As he was coming from this side of the churchyard . 
a great suspicion ! 	very suspicious ! 
stay the friar too . 	hold the friar too . 
what misadventure is so early up ,  That calls our person from our morning rest ? 	what unlucky event is up so early ,  That calls me from my morning's rest ? 
what should it be ,  that they so shriek abroad ? 	what’s the matter that they scream so loudly in the streets ? 
the people in the street cry ‘Romeo , ’ Some ‘Juliet , ’ and some ‘Paris’; and all run ,  With open outcry ,  toward our monument . 	the people in the street cry  “ Romeo ,  ”  Some  “ Juliet ,  ”  and some  “ Paris ,  ”  and all run With open outcries toward our tomb . 
what fear is this which startles in our ears ? 	what noise startles in our ears ? 
sovereign ,  here lies the County Paris slain; And Romeo dead; and Juliet ,  dead before ,  Warm and new kill'd . 	sovereign ,  here lies Count Paris slain ,  And Romeo dead ,  and Juliet ,  who was dead before ,  No warm and newly killed . 
search ,  seek ,  and know how this foul murder comes . 	search ,  seek ,  and know how this foul murder happened . 
here is a friar ,  and slaughter'd Romeo's man ,  With instruments upon them fit to open These dead men's tombs . 	here is a friar ,  and dead Romeo's man ,  With instruments on him that are fit to open These dead men's tombs . 
o heavens ! 	o heaven ! 
o wife ,  look how our daughter bleeds ! 	o wife ,  look how our daughter bleeds ! 
this dagger hath mista'en ,  for ,  lo ,  his house Is empty on the back of Montague ,  And it missheathed in my daughter's bosom ! 	this dagger has been mistaken ,  for ,  behold ,  his empty Case is on the back of Montague ,  And it’s misplaced in my daughter's bosom ! 
o me ! 	o me ! 
this sight of death is as a bell That warns my old age to a sepulchre . 	this sight of death is as a bell That warns my old age to a tomb . 
come ,  Montague; for thou art early up To see thy son and heir more early down . 	come ,  Montague; because you are up early To see your son and heir taken down even earlier . 
alas ,  my liege ,  my wife is dead to - night ! 	for pity’s sake ,  my lord ,  my wife died tonight . 
grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath . 	grief of my son's exile has killed her . 
what further woe conspires against mine age ? 	what additional sorrow conspires against my old age ? 
look ,  and thou shalt see . 	look ,  and you’ll see . 
o thou untaught ! 	o you stupid boy ! 
what manners is in this ,  To press before thy father to a grave ? 	what kind of manners is it To go to a grave before your father ? 
seal up the mouth of outrage for a while ,  Till we can clear these ambiguities And know their spring ,  their head ,  their true descent; And then will I be general of your woes And lead you even to death . 	and then I will be in charge of your sorrows ,  And lead you even to death . 
meantime forbear ,  And let mischance be slave to patience . 	In the meantime ,  do nothing ,  And let the investigation be do patiently . 
bring forth the parties of suspicion . 	bring out the suspects . 
I am the greatest ,  able to do least ,  Yet most suspected ,  as the time and place Doth make against me ,  of this direful murder; And here I stand ,  both to impeach and purge Myself condemned and myself excus'd . 	I am the greatest ,  able to do least ,  Yet most suspected ,  as the time and place Cast suspicion on me as guilty of this sad murder; And here I stand ,  both to accuse and free Myself ,  condemned and myself excused . 
then say at once what thou dost know in this . 	then tell what you know about all of this . 
I will be brief ,  for my short date of breath Is not so long as is a tedious tale . 	I will be brief ,  for I don’t have enough breath to This tedious tale . 
romeo ,  there dead ,  was husband to that Juliet; And she ,  there dead ,  that Romeo's faithful wife . 	romeo ,  there dead ,  was husband to that Juliet; And she ,  there dead ,  was Romeo's faithful wife . 
I married them; and their stol'n marriage day Was Tybalt's doomsday ,  whose untimely death Banish'd the new - made bridegroom from this city; For whom ,  and not for Tybalt ,  Juliet pin'd . 	I married them; and their secret wedding day Was Tybalt's doomsday ,  whose untimely death Banished the new - made bridegroom from this city ,  For whom Juliet pined ,  and not for Tybalt . 
you ,  to remove that siege of grief from her ,  Betroth'd and would have married her perforce To County Paris . 	you ,  to remove that siege of grief from her ,  Engaged and would have married her against her will ,  To Count Paris . 
then comes she to me And with wild looks bid me devise some mean To rid her from this second marriage ,  Or in my cell there would she kill herself . 	then she comes to me ,  And with wild looks ,  asks me to devise some means To get her of this second marriage ,  Or right there ,  in my cell ,  she would kill herself . 
then gave I her (so tutored by my art) A sleeping potion; which so took effect As I intended ,  for it wrought on her The form of death . 	then gave I her ,  according to my craft with herbs ,  A sleeping potion; which took effect As I intended ,  for it made her Seem dead . 
meantime I writ to Romeo That he should hither come as this dire night To help to take her from her borrowed grave ,  Being the time the potion's force should cease . 	In the meantime ,  I wrote to Romeo That he should come home ,  this bad night ,  To help to take her from her borrowed grave ,  At the time that the potion would wear off . 
but he which bore my letter ,  Friar John ,  Was stay'd by accident ,  and yesternight Return'd my letter back . 	but the man who carried my letter ,  Friar John ,  Was delayed by accident ,  and last night Returned my letter to me . 
then all alone At the prefixed hour of her waking Came I to take her from her kindred's vault; Meaning to keep her closely at my cell Till I conveniently could send to Romeo . 	then all alone At the prearranged hour of her waking up ,  I came to take her from her relative's tomb ,  Intending to keep her close at my cell Until I could easily send for Romeo . 
but when I came ,  some minute ere the time Of her awaking ,  here untimely lay The noble Paris and true Romeo dead . 	but when I got here ,  some minutes before the time Of her waking up ,  here the noble Paris Lay and true Romeo ,  both untimely dead . 
we still have known thee for a holy man . 	we still know you are a holy man . 
where's Romeo's man ? 	where's Romeo's man ? 
what can he say in this ? 	what can he say about this ? 
I brought my master news of Juliet's death; And then in post he came from Mantua To this same place ,  to this same monument . 	I brought news of Juliet's death to my master ,  And then he came from Mantua ,  by horse ,  To this same place ,  to this same tomb . 
this letter he early bid me give his father ,  And threat'ned me with death ,  going in the vault ,  If I departed not and left him there . 	he asked me to give his father this letter ,  And threatened me with death ,  going into the tomb ,  If I didn’t leave ,  and I left him there . 
give me the letter . 	give me the letter . 
I will look on it . 	I will read it . 
where is the County's page that rais'd the watch ? 	where is the Count’s page who called the guards ? 
sirrah ,  what made your master in this place ? 	servant ,  what was your master doing in this place ? 
he came with flowers to strew his lady's grave; And bid me stand aloof ,  and so I did . 	he came to scatter flowers on his lady's grave ,  And asked me to stand off to the side ,  and so I did . 
anon comes one with light to ope the tomb; And by - and - by my master drew on him; And then I ran away to call the watch . 	then here comes one with light to open the tomb ,  And ,  by - and - by ,  my master drew his sword on him; And then I ran away to call the guards . 
where be these enemies ? 	where are these enemies ? 
capulet ,  Montage ,  See what a scourge is laid upon your hate ,  That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love ! 	capulet ,  Montague ,  See what a cruel calamity is caused your hate ,  That heaven finds a way to kill your joys with love ! 
and I ,  for winking at you ,  discords too ,  Have lost a brace of kinsmen . 	and I ,  for disregarding your feud too ,  Have lost a number of relatives . 
all are punish'd . 	we are all are punished . 
o brother Montague ,  give me thy hand . 	o brother Montague ,  give me your hand . 
this is my daughter's jointure ,  for no more Can I demand . 	this is my daughter's dowry ,  for I can command No more . 
as rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie— Poor sacrifices of our enmity ! 	romeo's shall be as rich ,  lying by his lady's side ,  Poor sacrifices of our hatred ! 
a glooming peace this morning with it brings . 	this morning brings a gloomy peace with it . 
the sun for sorrow will not show his head . 	the sun will not show his head for sorrow . 
riddling confession finds but riddling shrift . 	a jumbled confession can only receive a jumbled absolution . 
then plainly know my heart’s dear love is set On the fair daughter of rich Capulet . 	I love rich Capulet’s daughter . 
as mine on hers ,  so hers is set on mine ,  And all combined ,  save what thou must combine By holy marriage . 	we’re bound to each other in every possible way ,  except we need you to marry us . 
when and where and how We met ,  we wooed and made exchange of vow ,  I’ll tell thee as we pass ,  but this I pray: That thou consent to marry us today . 	I’ll tell you more later about when and where we met ,  how we fell in love ,  and how we exchanged promises ,  but now I’m begging you: please ,  agree to marry us today . 
holy Saint Francis ,  what a change is here ! 	holy Saint Francis ,  this is a drastic change ! 
Is Rosaline ,  whom thou didst love so dear ,  So soon forsaken ? 	have you given up so quickly on Rosaline ,  whom you loved so much ? 
young men’s love then lies Not truly in their hearts ,  but in their eyes . 	then young men love with their eyes ,  not with their hearts . 
the sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears ,  Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears . 	the groans you used to make are still ringing in my old ears . 
lo ,  here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit Of an old tear that is not washed off yet . 	there’s still a stain on your cheek from an old tear that hasn’t been washed off yet . 
If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine ,  Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline . 	If you were ever yourself ,  and this sadness was yours ,  you and your sadness were all for Rosaline . 
and art thou changed ? 	and now you’ve changed ? 
pronounce this sentence then: Women may fall when there’s no strength in men . 	then repeat this after me: you can’t expect women to be faithful when men are so unreliable . 
thou chid’st me oft for loving Rosaline . 	you scolded me often for loving Rosaline . 
for doting ,  not for loving ,  pupil mine . 	I scolded you for obsessing about her ,  not for loving her ,  my student . 
and badest me bury love . 	and you told me to bury my love . 
not in a grave ,  To lay one in ,  another out to have . 	I didn’t tell you to get rid of one love and replace her with another . 
I pray thee ,  chide not . 	please ,  I beg you ,  don’t scold me . 
the other did not so . 	the other girl did not love me . 
oh ,  she knew well Thy love did read by rote ,  that could not spell . 	oh ,  she knew very well that you were acting like you were in love without really knowing what love means . 
but come ,  young waverer ,  come ,  go with me ,  In one respect I’ll thy assistant be ,  For this alliance may so happy prove To turn your households' rancor to pure love . 	but come on ,  inconsistent young man ,  come with me . 
oh ,  let us hence . 	let’s get out of here . 
I stand on sudden haste . 	I’m in a rush . 
wisely and slow . 	go wisely and slowly . 
they stumble that run fast . 	those who rush stumble and fall . 
where the devil should this Romeo be ? 	where the devil can Romeo be ? 
came he not home tonight ? 	didn’t he come home last night ? 
not to his father’s . 	not to his father’s house . 
I spoke with his man . 	I asked a servant . 
why ,  that same pale hard - hearted wench ,  that Rosaline ,  Torments him so ,  that he will sure run mad . 	that fair - skinned ,  hard - hearted hussy ,  Rosaline is going to torment him until he goes insane . 
tybalt ,  the kinsman to old Capulet ,  Hath sent a letter to his father’s house . 	tybalt ,  old Capulet’s nephew ,  has sent a letter to Romeo’s father’s house . 
a challenge ,  on my life . 	I bet it’s a challenge . 
romeo will answer it . 	romeo will answer the challenge . 
any man that can write may answer a letter . 	any man who knows how to write can answer a letter . 
nay ,  he will answer the letter’s master ,  how he dares ,  being dared . 	no ,  Romeo will respond to the letter’s writer ,  telling him whether he accepts the challenge . 
alas ,  poor Romeo ! 	oh ,  poor Romeo ! 
and is he a man to encounter Tybalt ? 	Is he man enough at this point to face off with Tybalt ? 
why ,  what is Tybalt ? 	why ,  what’s Tybalt’s story ? 
the what ? 	he knows what ? 
without his roe ,  like a dried herring . 	he looks skinny ,  like a dried herring without its eggs ,  and he hasn’t got his girl . 
o flesh ,  flesh ,  how art thou fishified ! 	o flesh ,  flesh ,  you’ve turned pale and weak like a fish . 
now is he for the numbers that Petrarch flowed in . 	now he’s ready for
good morrow to you both . 	good morning to you both . 
what counterfeit did I give you ? 	what do you mean I faked you out ? 
the slip ,  sir ,  the slip . 	you gave us the slip ,  sir ,  the slip . 
can you not conceive ? 	can’t you understand what I’m saying ? 
nay ,  I am the very pink of courtesy . 	the  Right . 
I serve as good a man as you . 	my employer is as good as yours . 
no better . 	but he’s not better than mine . 
well ,  sir . 	well then . 
you lie . 	you lie . 
you know not what you do . 	gregory ,  remember how to slash . 
what ,  art thou drawn among these heartless hinds ? 	what ? 
come between us ,  good Benvolio . 	come break this up ,  Benvolio . 
my wits faints . 	I’m losing this duel of wits . 
switch and spurs ,  switch and spurs ,  or I’ll cry a match . 	keep going ,  keep going ,  or I’ll declare myself the winner . 
nay ,  if our wits run the wild - goose chase ,  I am done ,  for thou hast more of the wild - goose in one of thy wits than ,  I am sure ,  I have in my whole five . 	you have more wild goose in one of your jokes than I have in five of mine . 
was I with you there for the goose ? 	was I even close to you in the chase for the goose ? 
thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the goose . 	you were never with me for anything if you weren’t there for the goose . 
I will bite thee by the ear for that jest . 	I’ll bite you on the ear for that joke . 
nay ,  good goose ,  bite not . 	no ,  good goose ,  don’t bite me . 
thy wit is a very bitter sweeting . 	your joke is a very bitter apple . 
It is a most sharp sauce . 	your humor is a spicy sauce . 
and is it not well served into a sweet goose ? 	then isn’t it just the right dish for a sweet goose ? 
oh ,  here’s a wit of cheveril ,  that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad ! 	oh ,  that’s a joke made out of leather that spreads itself thin ,  from the width of an inch to as fat as a yard . 
I stretch it out for that word  “ broad ,  ”  which ,  added to the goose ,  proves thee far and wide a broad goose . 	I stretch my joke for that word  “ fat .  ”  If you add that word to the word  “ goose ,  ”  it shows that you are a fat goose . 
why ,  is not this better now than groaning for love ? 	why ,  isn’t all this joking better than groaning about love ? 
now art thou sociable . 	now you’re sociable . 
now art thou Romeo . 	now you’re Romeo . 
thou wouldst else have made thy tale large . 	oh ,  you’re wrong . 
oh ,  thou art deceived . 	I would have made it short . 
I would have made it short ,  for I was come to the whole depth of my tale ,  and meant ,  indeed ,  to occupy the argument no longer . 	I had come to the deepest part of my tale ,  and I planned to say nothing more on the topic . 
here’s goodly gear . 	here’s something good . 
two ,  two—a shirt and a smock . 	there’s two—a man and a woman . 
peter ! 	peter ! 
anon ! 	I’m at your service . 
my fan ,  Peter . 	give me my fan ,  Peter . 
god ye good morrow ,  gentlemen . 	good morning ,  gentlemen . 
god ye good e'en ,  fair gentlewoman . 	good afternoon ,  fair lady . 
Is it good e'en ? 	Is it now afternoon ? 
tis no less ,  I tell you ,  for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon . 	It’s not earlier than that ,  I tell you . 
out upon you ! 	the  Get out of here ! 
what a man are you ? 	what kind of man are you ? 
one ,  gentlewoman ,  that God hath made ,  himself to mar . 	I’m a man ,  my lady ,  that God has made for himself to ruin . 
by my troth ,  it is well said . 	I swear ,  you speak the truth . 
for himself to mar ,  ”  quoth he ? 	for himself to ruin ,  ”  he says . 
gentlemen ,  can any of you tell me where I may find the young Romeo ? 	gentlemen ,  can any of you tell me where I can find young Romeo ? 
I can tell you ,  but young Romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him . 	I can tell you ,  but young Romeo will be older when you find him than he was when you started looking for him . 
I am the youngest of that name ,  for fault of a worse . 	I am the youngest man by that name ,  because there is no one younger ,  or worse . 
you say well . 	you speak well . 
yea ,  is the worst well ? 	Is the worst well ? 
very well took ,  i' faith ,  wisely ,  wisely . 	very well taken ,  I believe ,  very wise . 
she will indite him to some supper . 	she will  A pimp ! 
so ho ! 	I’ve found it out . 
what hast thou found ? 	what have you found out ? 
romeo ,  will you come to your father’s ? 	romeo ,  are you going to your father’s for lunch ? 
we’ll to dinner ,  thither . 	let’s go there . 
I will follow you . 	I’ll follow after you . 
a gentleman ,  Nurse ,  that loves to hear himself talk ,  and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month . 	he says more in one minute than he does in a whole month . 
an he speak any thing against me ,  I’ll take him down ,  an he were lustier than he is ,  and twenty such Jacks . 	If he says anything against me ,  I’ll humble him ,  even if he were stronger than he is—and twenty punks like him . 
and if I cannot ,  I’ll find those that shall . 	If I can’t do it myself ,  I’ll find someone who can . 
scurvy knave ! 	that dirty rat ! 
I am none of his flirt - gills . 	I’m not one of his sluts . 
I am none of his skains - mates . 	I’m not one of his punk friends who carries a knife . 
I saw no man use you at his pleasure . 	I didn’t see anybody use you for kicks . 
If I had ,  my weapon should quickly have been out ,  I warrant you . 	If I had seen something like that ,  I would have quickly pulled out my weapon . 
I dare draw as soon as another man if I see occasion in a good quarrel and the law on my side . 	believe me ,  I’ll draw my sword as quick as any other man if I see a fight starting and the law is on my side . 
now ,  afore God ,  I am so vexed that every part about me quivers . 	now ,  I swear ,  I’m so angry that I’m shaking all over . 
scurvy knave ! 	that rotten scoundrel ! 
nurse ,  commend me to thy lady and mistress . 	nurse ,  give my regards to to your lady . 
I protest unto thee— Good heart ,  and i' faith ,  I will tell her as much . 	I swear to you— You have a good heart ,  and believe me ,  I’ll tell her that . 
lord ,  Lord ,  she will be a joyful woman . 	lord ,  Lord ,  she’ll be a happy woman . 
what wilt thou tell her ,  Nurse ? 	what are you going to tell her ,  Nurse ? 
thou dost not mark me . 	you’re not paying attention to me . 
and there she shall at Friar Lawrence' cell Be shrived and married . 	at Friar Lawrence’s cell she can make confession and be married . 
and stay ,  good Nurse . 	wait good Nurse . 
behind the abbey wall Within this hour my man shall be with thee And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair ,  Which to the high top - gallant of my joy Must be my convoy in the secret night . 	within an hour ,  one of my men will come to you behind the abbey wall and give you a rope ladder . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
be trusty ,  and I’ll quit thy pains . 	be honest and helpful ,  and I’ll repay you for your efforts . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
commend me to thy mistress . 	sing my praises to your mistress . 
now God in heaven bless thee ! 	may God in heaven bless you . 
hark you ,  sir . 	now please listen ,  sir . 
what sayst thou ,  my dear Nurse ? 	what do you have to say ,  my dear Nurse ? 
Is your man secret ? 	can your man keep a secret ? 
did you ne'er hear say ,   “ Two may keep counsel ,  putting one away ”  ? 	haven’t you ever heard the saying ,   “ Two can conspire to put one away ”  ? 
warrant thee ,  my man’s as true as steel . 	I assure you ,  my man is as true as steel . 
well ,  sir ,  my mistress is the sweetest lady . —Lord ,  Lord ! 	well ,  sir ,  my mistress is the sweetest lady . 
when ’twas a little prating thing . —Oh ,  there is a nobleman in town ,  one Paris ,  that would fain lay knife aboard ,  but she ,  good soul ,  had as lief see a toad ,  a very toad ,  as see him . 	lord ,  Lord ,  when she was a little baby—Oh ,  there is one nobleman in the city ,  a guy named Paris ,  who would be happy to claim her as his own . 
I anger her sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer man . 	I make her angry sometimes by saying that Paris is more handsome than you are . 
but ,  I’ll warrant you ,  when I say so ,  she looks as pale as any clout in the versal world . 	but when I say so ,  I swear she turns white as a sheet . 
doth not  Ay ,  Nurse ,  what of that ? 	don’t  “  Yes ,  Nurse ,  what about that ? 
both with an  Ah ,  mocker ,  that’s the dog’s name . 	they both begin with the letter  “ R .  ”  Ah ,  you jokester—that’s the dog’s name . 
commend me to thy lady . 	give my compliments to your lady . 
ay ,  a thousand times . —Peter ! 	yes ,  a thousand times . 
anon ! 	peter ! 
before and apace . 	I’m ready . 
the clock struck nine when I did send the Nurse . 	I sent the Nurse at nine o'clock . 
perchance she cannot meet him . 	maybe she can’t find him . 
that’s not so . 	that can’t be . 
oh ,  she is lame ! 	oh ,  she’s slow ! 
love’s heralds should be thoughts ,  Which ten times faster glide than the sun’s beams ,  Driving back shadows over louring hills . 	love’s messengers should be thoughts ,  which fly ten times faster than sunbeams . 
now is the sun upon the highmost hill Of this day’s journey ,  and from nine till twelve Is three long hours ,  yet she is not come . 	that’s three hours since nine o'clock ,  but she hasn’t come back . 
had she affections and warm youthful blood ,  She would be as swift in motion as a ball . 	If she was young and passionate ,  she’d move as fast as a ball . 
my words would bandy her to my sweet love ,  And his to me . 	my words would bounce her to my sweet love ,  and his words would bounce her back to me . 
but old folks ,  many feign as they were dead ,  Unwieldy ,  slow ,  heavy ,  and pale as lead . 	but a lot of old people act like they’re already dead—sluggish ,  slow ,  fat ,  and colorless ,  like lead . 
o God ,  she comes . —O honey Nurse ,  what news ? 	oh sweet Nurse ,  what news do you bring ? 
hast thou met with him ? 	have you spoken to him ? 
send thy man away . 	send your man away . 
peter ,  stay at the gate . 	peter ,  wait for me at the gate . 
now ,  good sweet Nurse— O Lord ,  why look’st thou sad ? 	now ,  good sweet Nurse—Oh Lord ,  why do you look so sad ? 
though news be sad ,  yet tell them merrily . 	even if the news is sad ,  tell me with a smile on your face . 
If good ,  thou shamest the music of sweet news By playing it to me with so sour a face . 	If the news is good ,  you’re ruining the sweet news by playing a trick with a sour face like that . 
I am aweary . 	I am tired . 
give me leave awhile . 	leave me alone for a minute . 
fie ,  how my bones ache ! 	oh my ,  my bones ache so much . 
I would thou hadst my bones and I thy news . 	I wish you had my bones ,  and I had your news . 
can you not stay awhile ? 	can’t you wait for a moment ? 
do you not see that I am out of breath ? 	don’t you see that I’m out of breath ? 
how art thou out of breath when thou hast breath To say to me that thou art out of breath ? 	how can you be out of breath when you have enough breath to tell me that you’re out of breath ? 
the excuse that thou dost make in this delay Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse . 	the excuse you make to delay the news is longer than the news itself . 
Is thy news good ,  or bad ? 	Is the news good or bad ? 
answer to that . 	answer that question . 
say either ,  and I’ll stay the circumstance . 	tell me if it’s good or bad ,  and I’ll wait for the details . 
let me be satisfied . 	tell me so I can be satisfied . 
Is ’t good or bad ? 	Is it good or bad ? 
well ,  you have made a simple choice . 	well ,  you have made a foolish choice . 
you know not how to choose a man . 	you don’t know how to pick a man . 
romeo ! 	romeo ? 
no ,  not he ,  though his face be better than any man’s ,  yet his leg excels all men’s ,  and for a hand and a foot and a body ,  though they be not to be talked on ,  yet they are past compare . 	no ,  not him ,  though his face is more handsome than any man’s ,  and his legs are prettier ,  and as for his hands and feet and body ,  they’re not much to speak of ,  and yet they’re beyond compare . 
he is not the flower of courtesy ,  but ,  I’ll warrant him ,  as gentle as a lamb . 	he’s not the most polite man in the world ,  but ,  believe me ,  he’s gentle as a lamb . 
go thy ways ,  wench . 	well ,  do what you want . 
serve God . 	be good . 
what ,  have you dined at home ? 	have you had lunch yet ? 
no ,  no . 	no ,  I haven’t had lunch . 
but all this did I know before . 	everything you told me I already knew . 
what says he of our marriage ? 	what does he say about our marriage ? 
what of that ? 	what about that ? 
my back a' t' other side . 	my head is pounding . 
ah ,  my back ,  my back ! 	my back aches too—
I' faith ,  I am sorry that thou art not well . 	believe me ,  I’m sorry you’re in pain . 
sweet ,  sweet ,  sweet Nurse ,  tell me ,  what says my love ? 	sweet ,  sweet ,  sweet Nurse ,  tell me ,  what did my love Romeo say ? 
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,  and a courteous ,  and a kind ,  and a handsome ,  and ,  I warrant ,  a virtuous— Where is your mother ? 	your love says ,  like an honorable gentleman ,  who is courteous ,  kind ,  handsome ,  and ,  I believe ,  virtuous— where is your mother ? 
where is my mother ? 	where is my mother ? 
why ,  she is within . 	why ,  she’s inside . 
where should she be ? 	where else would she be ? 
how oddly thou repliest ! 	your answer is so strange ! 
your love says ,  like an honest gentleman ,  'Where is your mother ? 	your love says ,  like an honorable gentleman ,  'Where is your mother ? 
o God’s lady dear ,  Are you so hot ? 	are you this impatient ? 
marry ,  come up ,  I trow . 	come on ,  you’re being ridiculous ! 
Is this the poultice for my aching bones ? 	Is this the cure for my aching bones ? 
henceforward do your messages yourself . 	from now on ,  take care of your messages yourself . 
here’s such a coil . 	you’re making such a fuss . 
come ,  what says Romeo ? 	come on ,  what did Romeo say ? 
have you got leave to go to shrift today ? 	do you have permission to go out and take confession today ? 
I have . 	I do . 
then hie you hence to Friar Lawrence’s cell . 	then hurry up and rush over to Friar Lawrence’s cell . 
there stays a husband to make you a wife . 	there’s a husband there who’s waiting to make you his wife . 
now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks . 	now I see the blood rushing to your cheeks . 
they’ll be in scarlet straight at any news . 	you blush bright red as soon as you hear any news . 
hie you to church . 	go to the church . 
I must another way To fetch a ladder ,  by the which your love Must climb a bird’s nest soon when it is dark . 	your love will use it to climb up to your window while it’s dark . 
go . 	go . 
I’ll to dinner . 	I’ll go to lunch . 
hie you to the cell . 	you go to Friar Lawrence’s cell . 
I do but keep the peace . 	I’m only trying to keep the peace . 
put up thy sword ,  Or manage it to part these men with me . 	either put away your sword or use it to help me stop this fight . 
what ,  drawn ,  and talk of peace ? 	what ? 
I hate the word ,  As I hate hell ,  all Montagues ,  and thee . 	I hate the word peace like I hate hell ,  all Montagues ,  and you . 
have at thee ,  coward ! 	let’s go at it ,  coward ! 
clubs ,  bills ,  and partisans ! 	use your clubs and spears ! 
strike ! 	hit them ! 
beat them down ! 	beat them down ! 
down with the Capulets ! 	down with the Capulets ! 
down with the Montagues ! 	down with the Montagues ! 
what noise is this ? 	what’s this noise ? 
my sword ,  I say ! 	I want my sword . 
old Montague is come ,  And flourishes his blade in spite of me . 	old Montague is here ,  and he’s waving his sword around just to make me mad . 
thou villain Capulet ! 	capulet ,  you villain ! 
thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe . 	you’re not taking one step toward an enemy . 
hie to high fortune ! 	wish me luck . 
honest Nurse ,  farewell . 	thank you ,  dear Nurse . 
amen ,  amen . 	amen ,  amen . 
but come what sorrow can ,  It cannot countervail the exchange of joy That one short minute gives me in her sight . 	but whatever misfortunes occur ,  they can’t ruin the joy I feel with one look at her . 
therefore love moderately . 	therefore ,  love each other in moderation . 
long love doth so . 	that is the key to long - lasting love . 
too swift arrives as tardy as too slow . 	too fast is as bad as too slow . 
here comes the lady . 	here comes the lady . 
oh ,  so light a foot Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint . 	oh , a footstep as light as hers will never endure the rocky road of life . 
good even to my ghostly confessor . 	that’s how flimsy and unreal pleasure is . 
romeo shall thank thee ,  daughter ,  for us both . 	romeo will thank you ,  my girl ,  for both of us . 
as much to him ,  else is his thanks too much . 	I’ll give him equal thanks ,  so we’re even . 
ah ,  Juliet ,  if the measure of thy joy Be heaped like mine ,  and that thy skill be more To blazon it ,  then sweeten with thy breath This neighbor air ,  and let rich music’s tongue Unfold the imagined happiness that both Receive in either by this dear encounter . 	ah ,  Juliet if you’re as happy as I am ,  and you’re better with words ,  tell me about the happiness you imagine we’ll have in our marriage . 
conceit ,  more rich in matter than in words ,  Brags of his substance ,  not of ornament . 	I can imagine more than I can say—I have more on my mind than words . 
come ,  come with me ,  and we will make short work . 	come ,  come with me ,  and we’ll do the job quickly . 
I pray thee ,  good Mercutio ,  let’s retire . 	I’m begging you ,  good Mercutio ,  let’s call it a day . 
thou art like one of those fellows that ,  when he enters the confines of a tavern ,  claps me his sword upon the table and says  “ God send me no need of thee !  ”  and ,  by the operation of the second cup ,  draws it on the drawer when indeed there is no need . 	you’re like one of those guys who walks into a bar ,  slams his sword on the table ,  and then says ,   “ I pray I never have to use you .  ”  By the time he orders his second drink ,  he pulls his sword on the bartender for no reason at all . 
am I like such a fellow ? 	am I really like one of those guys ? 
come ,  come ,  thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as any in Italy ,  and as soon moved to be moody ,  and as soon moody to be moved . 	come on ,  you can be as angry as any guy in Italy when you’re in the mood . 
and what to ? 	and what about that ? 
nay ,  an there were two such ,  we should have none shortly ,  for one would kill the other . 	If there were two men like you ,  pretty soon there’d be none because the two of you would kill each other . 
thou ,  why ,  thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast . 	you would fight with a man if he had one more whisker or one less whisker in his beard than you have in your beard . 
thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts ,  having no other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes . 	you’ll fight with a man who’s cracking nuts just because you have hazelnut - colored eyes . 
what eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel ? 	only you would look for a fight like that . 
thy head is as full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat ,  and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as an egg for quarreling . 	your head is as full of fights as an egg is full of yolk ,  but your head has been beaten like scrambled eggs from so much fighting . 
thou hast quarreled with a man for coughing in the street because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun . 	you started a fight with a man who coughed in the street because he woke up a dog that was sleeping in the sun . 
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter ? 	didn’t you argue it out with your tailor for wearing one of his new suits before the right season ? 
with another ,  for tying his new shoes with old ribbon ? 	and with another for tying the new shoes he made with old laces ? 
and yet thou wilt tutor me from quarreling ! 	and yet you’re the one who wants to teach me about restraint ! 
an I were so apt to quarrel as thou art ,  any man should buy the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter . 	If I were in the habit of fighting the way you are ,  my life insurance rates would be sky high . 
the fee simple ? 	your life insurance ? 
o simple ! 	that’s foolish . 
by my head ,  here comes the Capulets . 	oh great ,  here come the Capulets . 
by my heel ,  I care not . 	well ,  well ,  I don’t care . 
couple it with something . 	put it together with something else . 
make it a word and a blow . 	make it a word and a blow . 
you shall find me apt enough to that ,  sir ,  an you will give me occasion . 	you’ll find me ready enough to do that ,  sir ,  if you give me a reason . 
could you not take some occasion without giving ? 	can’t you find a reason without my giving you one ? 
mercutio ,  thou consort’st with Romeo . 	mercutio ,  you hang out with Romeo . 
what ,  dost thou make us minstrels ? 	hang out ?  ”  Who do you think we are ,  musicians in a band ? 
an thou make minstrels of us ,  look to hear nothing but discords . 	If we look like musicians to you ,  you can expect to hear nothing but noise . 
we talk here in the public haunt of men . 	we’re talking here in a public place . 
either withdraw unto some private place ,  And reason coldly of your grievances ,  Or else depart . 	either go someplace private ,  or talk it over rationally ,  or else just go away . 
here all eyes gaze on us . 	out here everybody can see us . 
men’s eyes were made to look and let them gaze . 	men’s eyes were made to see things ,  so let them watch . 
I will not budge for no man’s pleasure ,  I . 	I won’t move to please anybody . 
well ,  peace be with you ,  sir . 	well ,  may peace be with you . 
here comes my man . 	here comes my man ,  the man I’m looking for . 
but I’ll be hanged ,  sir ,  if he wear your livery . 	he’s not your man . 
tybalt ,  the reason that I have to love thee Doth much excuse the appertaining rage To such a greeting . 	tybalt ,  I have a reason to love you that lets me put aside the rage I should feel and excuse that insult . 
villain am I none . 	I am no villain . 
therefore ,  farewell . 	so ,  goodbye . 
I see thou know’st me not . 	I can tell that you don’t know who I am . 
boy ,  this shall not excuse the injuries That thou hast done me . 	boy ,  your words can’t excuse the harm you’ve done to me . 
therefore turn and draw . 	so now turn and draw your sword . 
and so ,  good Capulet—which name I tender As dearly as my own—be satisfied . 	and so ,  good Capulet—which is a name I love like my own name—you should be satisfied with what I say . 
o calm dishonourable ,  vile submission ! 	this calm submission is dishonorable and vile . 
what wouldst thou have with me ? 	what do you want from me ? 
will you pluck your sword out of his pilcher by the ears ? 	will you pull your sword out of its sheath ? 
make haste ,  lest mine be about your ears ere it be out . 	hurry up ,  or I’ll smack you on the ears with my sword before you have yours drawn . 
I am for you . 	I’ll fight you . 
gentle Mercutio ,  put thy rapier up . 	noble Mercutio ,  put your sword away . 
away ,  Tybalt . 	let’s get away ,  Tybalt . 
I am hurt . 	I’ve been hurt . 
a plague o' both your houses ! 	may a plague curse both your families . 
I am sped . 	I’m finished . 
Is he gone and hath nothing ? 	did he get away clean ? 
what ,  art thou hurt ? 	what ,  are you hurt ? 
marry ,  ’tis enough . 	but it’s enough . 
where is my page ? —Go ,  villain ,  fetch a surgeon . 	where is my page ? 
courage ,  man . 	have courage ,  man . 
the hurt cannot be much . 	the wound can’t be that bad . 
no ,  ’tis not so deep as a well nor so wide as a church - door ,  but ’tis enough ,  ’twill serve . 	no ,  it’s not as deep as a well ,  or as wide as a church door ,  but it’s enough . 
ask for me tomorrow ,  and you shall find me a grave man . 	ask for me tomorrow ,  and you’ll find me in a grave . 
I am peppered ,  I warrant ,  for this world . 	I’m done for in this world ,  I believe . 
a plague o' both your houses ! 	may a plague strike both your houses . 
zounds ,  a dog ,  a rat ,  a mouse ,  a cat to scratch a man to death ! 	I can’t believe that dog ,  that rat ,  that mouse ,  that cat could scratch me to death ! 
a braggart ,  a rogue ,  a villain that fights by the book of arithmetic ! 	that braggart ,  punk villain who fights like he learned swordsmanship from a manual ! 
why the devil came you between us ? 	why the hell did you come in between us ? 
I was hurt under your arm . 	he struck me from under your arm . 
I thought all for the best . 	I thought it was the right thing to do . 
help me into some house ,  Benvolio ,  Or I shall faint . 	take me inside some house ,  Benvolio ,  or I’ll pass out . 
a plague o' both your houses ! 	may a plague strike both your families ! 
they have made worms' meat of me . 	they’ve turned me into food for worms . 
I have it ,  And soundly too . 	I’m done for . 
your houses ! 	curse your families ! 
o Romeo ,  Romeo ,  brave Mercutio is dead ! 	oh Romeo ,  Romeo ,  brave Mercutio is dead ! 
here comes the furious Tybalt back again . 	here comes the furious Tybalt back again . 
alive in triumph—and Mercutio slain ! 	he’s alive and victorious ,  and Mercutio’s dead ? 
either thou or I ,  or both ,  must go with him . 	either you ,  or I ,  or both of us have to go with him . 
thou ,  wretched boy ,  that didst consort him here Shalt with him hence . 	wretched boy ,  you hung out with him here ,  and you’re going to go to heaven with him . 
this shall determine that . 	this fight will decide who dies . 
romeo ,  away ,  be gone ! 	romeo ,  get out of here . 
the citizens are up ,  and Tybalt slain . 	the citizens are around ,  and Tybalt is dead . 
stand not amazed . 	don’t stand there shocked . 
the Prince will doom thee death If thou art taken . 	the Prince will give you the death penalty if you get caught . 
hence ,  be gone ,  away ! 	so get out of here ! 
why dost thou stay ? 	why are you waiting ? 
which way ran he that killed Mercutio ? 	the man who killed Mercutio ,  which way did he go ? 
tybalt ,  that murderer ,  which way ran he ? 	tybalt ,  that murderer ,  which way did he run ? 
there lies that Tybalt . 	tybalt is lying over there . 
speak ,  nephew . 	speak ,  nephew . 
were you by when it began ? 	were you here when it started ? 
where are the vile beginners of this fray ? 	where are the evil men who started this fight ? 
o noble prince ,  I can discover all The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl . 	oh ,  noble prince ,  I can tell you everything about the unfortunate circumstances of this deadly fight . 
there lies the man ,  slain by young Romeo ,  That slew thy kinsman ,  brave Mercutio . 	he killed your relative ,  brave Mercutio ,  and then young Romeo killed him . 
tybalt ,  my cousin ! 	tybalt was my nephew ! 
o my brother’s child ! 	he was my brother’s son ! 
o cousin ,  cousin ! 	oh cousin ,  cousin ! 
benvolio ,  who began this bloody fray ? 	benvolio ,  who started this fight ? 
romeo ,  he cries aloud ,   “ Hold ,  friends ! 	romeo cried out ,   “ Stop ,  my friends . 
friends ,  part !  ”  and ,  swifter than his tongue ,  His agile arm beats down their fatal points ,  And ’twixt them rushes—underneath whose arm An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life Of stout Mercutio ,  and then Tybalt fled . 	break it up .  ”  Then he jumped in between them and forced them to put their swords down . 
but by and by comes back to Romeo ,  Who had but newly entertained revenge ,  And to ’t they go like lightning ,  for ere I Could draw to part them was stout Tybalt slain . 	before I could break up the fight ,  Tybalt was killed . 
and ,  as he fell ,  did Romeo turn and fly . 	romeo ran away when Tybalt fell dead . 
this is the truth ,  or let Benvolio die . 	benvolio is part of the Montague family . 
he speaks not true . 	he’s not telling the truth . 
some twenty of them fought in this black strife ,  And all those twenty could but kill one life . 	there were twenty Montagues fighting in this awful riot ,  and together those twenty could only kill one man . 
I beg for justice ,  which thou ,  Prince ,  must give . 	you ,  Prince ,  are the man who can give me justice . 
romeo slew Tybalt . 	romeo killed Tybalt . 
romeo must not live . 	romeo must die . 
romeo slew him; he slew Mercutio . 	romeo killed Tybalt . 
who now the price of his dear blood doth owe ? 	who should now pay the price for Mercutio’s life ? 
his fault concludes but what the law should end ,  The life of Tybalt . 	his crime did justice’s job by taking Tybalt’s life . 
I have an interest in your hearts' proceeding . 	I’m involved in your rivalry . 
but I’ll amerce you with so strong a fine That you shall all repent the loss of mine . 	I’ll punish you so harshly that you’ll regret causing me this loss . 
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses . 	I won’t listen to your pleas or excuses . 
nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses ,  Therefore use none . 	you can’t get out of trouble by praying or crying ,  so don’t bother . 
bear hence this body and attend our will . 	take away this body ,  and do what I say . 
mercy but murders ,  pardoning those that kill . 	showing mercy by pardoning killers only causes more murders . 
lovers can see to do their amorous rites By their own beauties ,  or ,  if love be blind ,  It best agrees with night . 	or else love is blind ,  and its best time is the night . 
come ,  civil night ,  Thou sober - suited matron ,  all in black ,  And learn me how to lose a winning match Played for a pair of stainless maidenhoods . 	I wish night would come ,  like a widow dressed in black ,  so I can learn how to submit to my husband and lose my virginity . 
hood my unmanned blood bating in my cheeks ,  With thy black mantle ,  till strange love ,  grow bold ,  Think true love acted simple modesty . 	let the blood rushing to my cheeks be calmed . 
come ,  night . 	come ,  night . 
come ,  Romeo . 	come ,  Romeo . 
come ,  thou day in night ,  For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night Whiter than new snow upon a raven’s back . 	you’re whiter than snow on the black wings of a raven . 
and when I shall die ,  Take him and cut him out in little stars ,  And he will make the face of heaven so fine That all the world will be in love with night And pay no worship to the garish sun . 	his face will make the heavens so beautiful that the world will fall in love with the night and forget about the garish sun . 
the cords That Romeo bid thee fetch ? 	Is that the rope ladder Romeo told you to pick up ? 
ay ,  ay ,  the cords . 	yes ,  yes ,  this is the rope ladder . 
ay me ,  what news ? 	oh my ,  what’s the news ? 
why dost thou wring thy hands ? 	why do you look so upset ? 
ah ,  welladay ! 	he’s dead . 
we are undone ,  lady ,  we are undone ! 	we’re ruined ,  lady ,  we’re ruined ! 
alack the day ! 	what an awful day ! 
can heaven be so envious ? 	can God be so jealous and hateful ? 
romeo can ,  Though heaven cannot . 	romeo is hateful ,  even though God isn’t . 
what devil art thou that dost torment me thus ? 	what kind of devil are you to torture me like this ? 
this torture should be roared in dismal hell . 	this is as bad as the tortures of hell . 
hath Romeo slain himself ? 	has Romeo killed himself ? 
say thou but  “ ay ,  ”  And that bare vowel  Than the death - darting eye of cockatrice . 	just say  “ Yes ”  and I will turn more poisonous than the snake with the evil eye . 
I am not I if there be such an  Or those eyes shut that makes thee answer  “ ay .  ”  If he be slain ,  say  “ ay ,  ”  or if not ,   “ no .  ”  Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe . 	If he’s been killed ,  say  “ Yes .  ”  If not ,  say  “ No .  ”  These short words will determine my joy or my pain . 
to prison ,  eyes ,  ne'er look on liberty . 	I’ll send my eyes to prison ,  and they’ll never be free to look at anything again . 
vile earth ,  to earth resign . 	I’ll give my vile body back to the earth . 
o Tybalt ,  Tybalt ,  the best friend I had ! 	oh ,  Tybalt ,  Tybalt ,  he was the best friend I had . 
that ever I should live to see thee dead . 	I wish I had not lived long enough to see him die . 
Is Romeo slaughtered ,  and is Tybalt dead ? 	has Romeo been killed ,  and is Tybalt dead too ? 
my dearest cousin and my dearer lord ? 	tybalt was my dearest cousin . 
tybalt is gone ,  and Romeo banishèd . 	tybalt is dead ,  and Romeo has been banished . 
o God ,  did Romeo’s hand shed Tybalt’s blood ? 	oh God ,  did Romeo’s hand shed Tybalt’s blood ? 
It did ,  it did . 	It did ,  it did . 
alas the day ,  it did . 	curse the day this happened ,  but it did . 
o serpent heart hid with a flowering face ! 	oh ,  he’s like a snake disguised as a flower . 
did ever dragon keep so fair a cave ? 	did a dragon ever hide in such a beautiful cave ? 
dove - feathered raven ,  wolvish - ravening lamb ! 	he’s a raven with the feathers of the dove . 
o nature ,  what hadst thou to do in hell When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend In moral paradise of such sweet flesh ? 	oh nature ,  what were you doing in hell ? 
was ever book containing such vile matter So fairly bound ? 	was there ever such an evil book with such a beautiful cover ? 
ah ,  where’s my man ? —Give me some aqua vitae . — These griefs ,  these woes ,  these sorrows make me old . 	ah ,  where’s my servant ? —Give me some brandy . —These griefs ,  these pains ,  these sorrows make me old . 
shame come to Romeo ! 	shame on Romeo ! 
blistered be thy tongue For such a wish ! 	I hope sores cover your tongue for a wish like that ! 
he was not born to shame . 	he was not born to be shameful . 
upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit ,  For ’tis a throne where honor may be crowned . 	he deserves only honor ,  complete honor . 
sole monarch of the universal earth ,  Oh ,  what a beast was I to chide at him ! 	oh ,  I was such a beast to be angry at him . 
will you speak well of him that killed your cousin ? 	are you going to say good things about the man who killed your cousin ? 
but wherefore ,  villain ,  didst thou kill my cousin ? 	but why ,  you villain ,  did you kill my cousin ? 
that villain cousin would have killed my husband . 	probably because my cousin the villain would have killed my husband . 
all this is comfort . 	all this is comforting news . 
wherefore weep I then ? 	why ,  then ,  should I cry ? 
I would forget it fain ,  But oh ,  it presses to my memory ,  Like damnèd guilty deeds to sinners' minds . 	I would be glad to forget about it ,  but it weighs on my memory like sins linger in guilty minds . 
tybalt is dead ,  and Romeo banishèd .  ” 	tybalt is dead ,  and Romeo has been banished .  ” 
that  “ banishèd ,  ”  that one word  “ banishèd ”  Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts . 	that banishment is worse than the murder of ten thousand Tybalts . 
tybalt’s death Was woe enough ,  if it had ended there . 	tybalt’s death would be bad enough if that was all . 
or ,  if sour woe delights in fellowship And needly will be ranked with other griefs ,  Why followed not ,  when she said  “ Tybalt’s dead ,  ”   “ Thy father ”  or  “ thy mother ,  ”  nay ,  or both ,  Which modern lamentations might have moved ? 	It would have been better if ,  after she said ,   “ Tybalt’s dead ,  ”  she told me my mother or my father ,  or both ,  were gone . 
but with a rearward following Tybalt’s death ,   “ Romeo is banishèd .  ”  To speak that word ,  Is father ,  mother ,  Tybalt ,  Romeo ,  Juliet ,  All slain ,  all dead . 	but to say that Tybalt’s dead and then say ,   “ Romeo has been banished .  ”  To say that is like saying that my father ,  my mother ,  Tybalt ,  Romeo ,  and Juliet have all been killed ,  they’re all dead . 
romeo is banishèd .  ”  There is no end ,  no limit ,  measure ,  bound ,  In that word’s death . 	romeo has been banished .  ”  That news brings infinite death . 
no words can that woe sound . 	no words can express the pain . 
where is my father and my mother ,  Nurse ? 	where are my father and my mother ,  Nurse ? 
weeping and wailing over Tybalt’s corse . 	they are crying and moaning over Tybalt’s corpse . 
will you go to them ? 	are you going to join them ? 
I will bring you thither . 	I’ll bring you there . 
wash they his wounds with tears ? 	are they washing out his wounds with their tears ? 
mine shall be spent When theirs are dry ,  for Romeo’s banishment . 	I’ll cry my tears for Romeo’s banishment when their tears are dry . 
take up those cords . —Poor ropes ,  you are beguiled ,  Both you and I ,  for Romeo is exiled . 	pick up this rope ladder . 
he made you for a highway to my bed ,  But I ,  a maid ,  die maiden - widowèd . 	he made this rope ladder to be a highway to my bed ,  but I am a virgin ,  and I will die a virgin and a widow . 
and death ,  not Romeo ,  take my maidenhead ! 	and death ,  not Romeo ,  can take my virginity ! 
hie to your chamber . 	go to your bedroom . 
I’ll find Romeo To comfort you . 	I’ll find Romeo to comfort you . 
I wot well where he is . 	I know where he is . 
hark ye ,  your Romeo will be here at night . 	listen ,  your Romeo will be here tonight . 
I’ll to him . 	I’ll go to him . 
he is hid at Lawrence' cell . 	he’s hiding out in Friar Lawrence’s cell . 
romeo ,  come forth . 	romeo ,  come out . 
come forth ,  thou fearful man . 	come out ,  you frightened man . 
father ,  what news ? 	father ,  what’s the news ? 
too familiar Is my dear son with such sour company . 	you know too much about suffering . 
I bring thee tidings of the Prince’s doom . 	I have news for you about the Prince’s punishment . 
what less than doomsday is the Prince’s doom ? 	Is the Prince’s punishment any less awful than doomsday ? 
ha ,  banishment ! 	ha ,  banishment ? 
be merciful ,  say  “ death ,  ”  For exile hath more terror in his look ,  Much more than death . 	be merciful and say  “ death .  ”  Exile is much worse than death . 
do not say  “ banishment .  ”  Hence from Verona art thou banishèd . 	don’t say  “ banishment .  ”  From now on ,  you are banished from Verona . 
be patient ,  for the world is broad and wide . 	you should be able to endure this because the world is broad and wide . 
there is no world without Verona walls But purgatory ,  torture ,  hell itself . 	there is no world for me outside the walls of Verona ,  except purgatory ,  torture ,  and hell itself . 
hence  “ banishèd ”  is banished from the world ,  And world’s exile is death . 	so to be banished from Verona is like being banished from the world ,  and being banished from the world is death . 
calling death  “ banishment ,  ”  Thou cutt’st my head off with a golden ax And smilest upon the stroke that murders me . 	calling death banishment is like cutting off my head with a golden ax and smiling while I’m being murdered . 
o deadly sin ! 	oh ,  deadly sin ! 
o rude unthankfulness ! 	oh ,  rude and unthankful boy ! 
tis torture and not mercy . 	It’s torture ,  not mercy . 
more validity ,  More honorable state ,  more courtship lives In carrion flies than Romeo . 	flies are healthier and more honorable and better suited for romance than Romeo . 
flies may do this ,  but I from this must fly . 	flies can kiss her ,  but I must flee the city . 
they are free men ,  but I am banishèd . 	flies are like free men ,  but I have been banished . 
and sayst thou yet that exile is not death ? 	and yet you say that exile is not death ? 
hadst thou no poison mixed ,  no sharp - ground knife ,  No sudden mean of death ,  though ne'er so mean ,  But  “ banishèd ”  to kill me ? — “ Banishèd ”  ! 	did you have no poison ,  no sharp knife ,  no weapon you could use to kill me quickly ,  nothing so disgraceful ,  except banishment ? 
o Friar ,  the damnèd use that word in hell . 	oh Friar ,  damned souls use the word banishment to describe hell . 
howling attends it . 	they howl about banishment . 
how hast thou the heart ,  Being a divine ,  a ghostly confessor ,  A sin - absolver ,  and my friend professed ,  To mangle me with that word  “ banishèd ”  ? 	If you’re a member of a divine spiritual order of men who forgive sins ,  and you say you’re my friend ,  how do you have the heart to mangle me with the word banishment ? 
thou fond mad man ,  hear me a little speak . 	you foolish madman ,  listen to me for a moment . 
here were the servants of your adversary ,  And yours ,  close fighting ere I did approach . 	your servants were fighting your enemy’s servants before I got here . 
I drew to part them . 	I drew my sword to part them . 
while we were interchanging thrusts and blows ,  Came more and more and fought on part and part ,  Till the Prince came ,  who parted either part . 	as we were trading blows ,  more and more people showed up to join the fight ,  until the Prince came and broke everyone up . 
oh ,  where is Romeo ? 	oh ,  where’s Romeo ? 
saw you him today ? 	have you seen him today ? 
right glad I am he was not at this fray . 	I’m glad he wasn’t here for this fight . 
towards him I made ,  but he was 'ware of me And stole into the covert of the wood . 	I headed toward him ,  but he saw me coming and hid in the woods . 
many a morning hath he there been seen ,  With tears augmenting the fresh morning’s dew ,  Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs . 	he’s been seen there many mornings ,  crying tears that add drops to the morning dew and making a cloudy day cloudier with his sighs . 
but all so soon as the all - cheering sun Should in the farthest east begin to draw The shady curtains from Aurora’s bed ,  Away from light steals home my heavy son , 	but as soon as the sun rises in the east ,  my sad son comes home to escape the light . 
oh ,  thou wilt speak again of banishment . 	oh ,  you’re just going to talk about banishment again . 
talk no more . 	don’t say anything else . 
oh ,  then I see that madmen have no ears . 	oh ,  so madmen like you are also deaf . 
how should they ,  when that wise men have no eyes ? 	how should madmen hear ,  if wise men can’t even see ? 
let me dispute with thee of thy estate . 	let me talk to you about your situation . 
thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel . 	you can’t talk about something that you don’t feel . 
wert thou as young as I ,  Juliet thy love ,  An hour but married ,  Tybalt murderèd ,  Doting like me ,  and like me banishèd ,  Then mightst thou speak ,  then mightst thou tear thy hair And fall upon the ground ,  as I do now ,  Taking the measure of an unmade grave . 	If you were as young as I am ,  if you were in love with Juliet ,  if you had just married her an hour ago ,  if then you murdered Tybalt ,  if you were lovesick like me ,  and if you were banished ,  then you might talk about it . 
arise . 	get up . 
one knocks . 	somebody’s knocking . 
good Romeo ,  hide thyself . 	hide yourself ,  good Romeo . 
not I ,  unless the breath of heartsick groans ,  Mistlike ,  infold me from the search of eyes . 	I won’t hide unless all the mist from my heartsick groans envelopes me like fog and conceals me from people’s searching eyes . 
who knocks so hard ? 	why are you knocking so hard ? 
whence come you ? 	where do you come from ? 
what’s your will ? 	what do you want ? 
o holy Friar ,  O ,  tell me ,  holy Friar ,  Where is my lady’s lord ? 	oh ,  holy Friar ,  Oh ,  tell me ,  holy Friar ,  where is my lady’s husband ? 
where’s Romeo ? 	where’s Romeo ? 
oh ,  he is even in my mistress' case ,  Just in her case . 	oh ,  he’s acting just like Juliet ,  just like her . 
o woeful sympathy ,  Piteous predicament ! 	oh painful sympathy ! 
even so lies she ,  Blubbering and weeping ,  weeping and blubbering . 	she’s lying on the ground just like him ,  blubbering and weeping ,  weeping and blubbering . 
stand ,  an you be a man . 	stand up if you’re really a man . 
for Juliet’s sake ,  for her sake ,  rise and stand . 	for Juliet’s sake ,  for her sake ,  rise and stand up . 
why should you fall into so deep an O ? 	why should you fall into so deep a moan ? 
nurse ! 	nurse ! 
ah sir ,  ah sir . 	ah sir ,  ah sir . 
death’s the end of all . 	well ,  death is the end for everybody . 
spakest thou of Juliet ? 	were you talking about Juliet ? 
how is it with her ? 	how is she ? 
where is she ? 	where is she ? 
and how doth she ? 	how is she doing ? 
and what says My concealed lady to our canceled love ? 	what does my hidden wife say about our ruined love ? 
as if that name ,  Shot from the deadly level of a gun ,  Did murder her ,  as that name’s cursed hand Murdered her kinsman . 	she’s calling out my name as if I were a bullet murdering her ,  just like I murdered her relative . 
o ,  tell me ,  Friar ,  tell me ,  In what vile part of this anatomy Doth my name lodge ? 	tell me ,  Friar ,  in what part of my body is my name embedded ? 
tell me ,  that I may sack The hateful mansion . 	tell me ,  so I can cut it out of myself . 
art thou a man ? 	are you a man ? 
thy wild acts denote The unreasonable fury of a beast . 	your wild actions resemble the irrational fury of a beast . 
thou hast amazed me . 	you have amazed me . 
by my holy order ,  I thought thy disposition better tempered . 	I swear by my holy order ,  I thought you were smarter and more rational than this . 
hast thou slain Tybalt ? 	have you killed Tybalt ? 
why rail’st thou on thy birth ,  the heaven ,  and earth ? 	why do you complain about your birth ,  the heavens ,  and the earth ? 
fie ,  fie ,  thou shamest thy shape ,  thy love ,  thy wit ,  Which ,  like a usurer ,  abound’st in all And usest none in that true use indeed Which should bedeck thy shape ,  thy love ,  thy wit . 	you have so much natural talent ,  but like someone who hoards money ,  you use none of your talent for the right purpose—not your body ,  not your love ,  not your mind . 
what ,  rouse thee ,  man ! 	get up ,  man ! 
thy Juliet is alive ,  For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead— There art thou happy . 	your Juliet is alive . 
tybalt would kill thee ,  But thou slew’st Tybalt—there art thou happy . 	tybalt wanted to kill you ,  but you killed Tybalt . 
the law that threatened death becomes thy friend And turns it to exile—there art thou happy . 	be happy that you’re alive . 
a pack of blessings light upon thy back ,  Happiness courts thee in her best array , 	you have the best sorts of happiness to enjoy . 
but ,  like a misbehaved and sullen wench ,  Thou pout’st upon thy fortune and thy love . 	but like a misbehaved ,  sullen girl ,  you’re whining about your bad luck and your love . 
go ,  get thee to thy love ,  as was decreed . 	go be with your love ,  as it was decided at your wedding . 
ascend her chamber ,  hence ,  and comfort her . 	climb up to her bedroom and comfort her . 
commend me to thy lady ,  And bid her hasten all the house to bed ,  Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto . 	give my regards to your lady ,  and tell her to hurry everybody in the house to bed . 
romeo is coming . 	romeo is coming . 
o Lord ,  I could have stayed here all the night To hear good counsel . 	o Lord ,  I could stay here all night listening to such good advice . 
oh ,  what learning is ! 	educated men are so impressive ! 
do so ,  and bid my sweet prepare to chide . 	do so ,  and tell my sweet to be ready to scold me . 
here ,  sir ,  a ring she bid me give you ,  sir . 	here ,  sir ,  this is a ring she asked me to give you . 
hie you ,  make haste ,  for it grows very late . 	hurry up ,  it’s getting late . 
how well my comfort is revived by this ! 	this makes me feel so much better ! 
go hence . 	now get out of here . 
good night . 	good night . 
and here stands all your state: Either be gone before the watch be set ,  Or by the break of day disguised from hence . 	everything depends on this: either be out of here before the night watchmen take their positions ,  or leave in disguise after daybreak . 
sojourn in Mantua . 	take a little vacation in Mantua . 
I’ll find out your man ,  And he shall signify from time to time Every good hap to you that chances here . 	I’ll find your servant ,  and he’ll update you now and then on your case as it stands here . 
give me thy hand . 	give me your hand . 
tis late . 	It’s late . 
farewell . 	farewell . 
things have fall'n out ,  sir ,  so unluckily ,  That we have had no time to move our daughter . 	things have turned out so unluckily ,  sir ,  that we haven’t had time to convince our daughter to marry you . 
look you ,  she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly ,  And so did I . 	listen ,  she loved her cousin Tybalt dearly ,  and so did I . 
well ,  we were born to die . 	well ,  we were all born to die . 
these times of woe afford no time to woo . 	these times of pain are bad times for romance . 
madam ,  good night . 	madam ,  good night . 
commend me to your daughter . 	give my regards to your daughter . 
I will ,  and know her mind early tomorrow . 	I will . 
tonight she is mewed up to her heaviness . 	tonight she is shut up in her room ,  alone with her sadness . 
sir Paris ,  I will make a desperate tender Of my child’s love . 	sir Paris ,  I’ll make a desperate argument for my child’s love . 
acquaint her here of my son Paris' love ,  And bid her ,  mark you me ,  on Wednesday next— But ,  soft ! 	tell her about my son Paris’s love for her . 
what day is this ? 	and tell her ,  listen to me ,  on Wednesday—Wait—What day is today ? 
monday ,  my lord . 	monday ,  my lord . 
monday ! 	monday ! 
ha ,  ha . 	ha ,  ha ! 
do you like this haste ? 	do you think it’s a good idea to rush ? 
we’ll keep no great ado ,  a friend or two . 	we shouldn’t have too big a celebration—we can invite a friend or two . 
for ,  hark you ,  Tybalt being slain so late ,  It may be thought we held him carelessly ,  Being our kinsman ,  if we revel much . 	listen ,  because Tybalt was just killed ,  people might think that we don’t care about his memory as our relative if we have too grand a party . 
therefore we’ll have some half a dozen friends ,  And there an end . 	therefore we’ll have about half a dozen friends to the wedding ,  and that’s it . 
but what say you to Thursday ? 	what do you think about Thursday ? 
my lord ,  I would that Thursday were tomorrow . 	my lord ,  I wish Thursday were tomorrow . 
well get you gone . 	well go on home . 
o' Thursday be it ,  then . — Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed . 	thursday it is ,  then . 
wilt thou be gone ? 	are you going ? 
It is not yet near day . 	It’s still a long time until daybreak . 
It was the nightingale ,  and not the lark ,  That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear . 	that sound you heard was the  It was the lark ,  the bird that sings at dawn ,  not the nightingale . 
look ,  love ,  what envious streaks Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east . 	look ,  my love ,  what are those streaks of light in the clouds parting in the east ? 
night’s candles are burnt out ,  and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops . 	night is over ,  and day is coming . 
yon light is not daylight ,  I know it ,  I . 	that light is not daylight ,  I know it . 
It is some meteor that the sun exhales To be to thee this night a torchbearer ,  And light thee on thy way to Mantua . 	It’s some meteor coming out of the sun to light your way to Mantua . 
therefore stay yet . 	so stay for a while . 
thou need’st not to be gone . 	you don’t have to go yet . 
let me be ta'en . 	let me be captured . 
let me be put to death . 	let me be put to death . 
I am content ,  so thou wilt have it so . 	I am content ,  if that’s the way you want it . 
I have more care to stay than will to go . 	I want to stay more than I want to go . 
come ,  death ,  and welcome ! 	come ,  death ,  and welcome ! 
let’s talk . 	let’s talk . 
It is not day . 	It’s not daylight . 
It is ,  it is . 	It is ,  it is . 
It is the lark that sings so out of tune ,  Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps . 	It’s the lark that sings so out of tune ,  making such harsh noise . 
some say the lark makes sweet division . 	some say the lark makes a sweet division between day and night . 
this doth not so ,  for she divideth us . 	It’s not true because she separates us . 
more light and light it grows . 	more and more light . 
more light and light ,  more dark and dark our woes ! 	more and more pain for us . 
madam . 	madam . 
nurse ? 	nurse ? 
your lady mother is coming to your chamber . 	your mother is coming to your bedroom . 
the day is broke . 	day has broken . 
then ,  window ,  let day in and let life out . 	then the window lets day in ,  and life goes out the window . 
farewell ,  farewell . 	farewell ,  farewell ! 
one kiss ,  and I’ll descend . 	give me one kiss ,  and I’ll go down . 
and private in his chamber pens himself ,  Shuts up his windows ,  locks fair daylight out ,  And makes himself an artificial night . 	he locks himself up alone in his bedroom ,  shuts his windows to keep out the beautiful daylight ,  and makes himself an artificial night . 
my noble uncle ,  do you know the cause ? 	my noble uncle ,  do you know why he acts this way ? 
I neither know it nor can learn of him . 	I don’t know ,  and he won’t tell me . 
have you importuned him by any means ? 	have you done everything you could to make him tell you the reason ? 
I would thou wert so happy by thy stay To hear true shrift . —Come ,  madam ,  let’s away . 	I hope you’re lucky enough to hear the true story by sticking around . 
art thou gone so ,  love ,  lord ? 	are you gone like that ,  my love ,  my lord ? 
oh ,  by this count I shall be much in years Ere I again behold my Romeo . 	oh ,  by this count I’ll be many years older before I see my Romeo again . 
farewell ! 	farewell ! 
I will omit no opportunity That may convey my greetings ,  love ,  to thee . 	I won’t miss any chance to send my love to you . 
oh ,  think’st thou we shall ever meet again ? 	oh ,  do you think we’ll ever meet again ? 
o God ,  I have an ill - divining soul . 	oh God ,  I have a soul that predicts evil things ! 
methinks I see thee now ,  thou art so low As one dead in the bottom of a tomb . 	now that you are down there ,  you look like someone dead in the bottom of a tomb . 
either my eyesight fails ,  or thou look’st pale . 	either my eyesight is failing me ,  or you look pale . 
and trust me ,  love ,  in my eye so do you . 	and trust me ,  love ,  you look pale to me too . 
dry sorrow drinks our blood . 	sadness takes away our color . 
adieu ,  adieu ! 	goodbye ,  Goodbye ! 
o fortune ,  fortune ! 	oh luck ,  luck . 
all men call thee fickle . 	everyone says you can’t make up your mind . 
be fickle ,  fortune ,  For then ,  I hope ,  thou wilt not keep him long ,  But send him back . 	I hope maybe then you’ll send him back home soon . 
who is ’t that calls ? 	who’s that calling ? 
Is it my lady mother ? 	Is it my mother ? 
what unaccustomed cause procures her hither ? 	what strange reason could she have for coming here ? 
why ,  how now ,  Juliet ? 	what’s going on ,  Juliet ? 
madam ,  I am not well . 	madam ,  I am not well . 
evermore weeping for your cousin’s death ? 	will you cry about your cousin’s death forever ? 
what ,  wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears ? 	are you trying to wash him out of his grave with tears ? 
an if thou couldst ,  thou couldst not make him live . 	If you could ,  you couldn’t bring him back to life . 
therefore ,  have done . 	so stop crying . 
some grief shows much of love ,  But much of grief shows still some want of wit . 	a little bit of grief shows a lot of love . 
yet let me weep for such a feeling loss . 	let me keep weeping for such a great loss . 
so shall you feel the loss ,  but not the friend Which you weep for . 	you will feel the loss ,  but the man you weep for will feel nothing . 
feeling so the loss ,  Cannot choose but ever weep the friend . 	feeling the loss like this ,  I can’t help but weep for him forever . 
well ,  girl ,  thou weep’st not so much for his death ,  As that the villain lives which slaughtered him . 	well ,  girl ,  you’re weeping not for his death as much as for the fact that the villain who killed him is still alive . 
what villain ,  madam ? 	what villain ,  madam ? 
that same villain ,  Romeo . 	that villain ,  Romeo . 
that is because the traitor murderer lives . 	that’s because the murderer is alive . 
ay ,  madam ,  from the reach of these my hands . 	yes ,  madam ,  he lies beyond my reach . 
would none but I might venge my cousin’s death ! 	I wish that no one could avenge my cousin’s death except me ! 
then weep no more . 	stop crying . 
I’ll send to one in Mantua ,  Where that same banished runagate doth live ,  Shall give him such an unaccustomed dram That he shall soon keep Tybalt company . 	I’ll send a man to Mantua ,  where that exiled rogue is living . 
and then ,  I hope ,  thou wilt be satisfied . 	and then ,  I hope ,  you’ll be satisfied . 
Indeed ,  I never shall be satisfied With Romeo ,  till I behold him—dead— Is my poor heart for a kinsman vexed . 	I’ll never be satisfied with Romeo until I see him  . 
madam ,  if you could find out but a man To bear a poison ,  I would temper it ,  That Romeo should ,  upon receipt thereof ,  Soon sleep in quiet . 	madam ,  if you can find a man to deliver the poison ,  I’ll mix it myself so that Romeo will sleep quietly soon after he drinks it . 
to wreak the love I bore my cousin Upon his body that slaughtered him ! 	I want to take the love I had for my cousin and take it out on the body of the man who killed him . 
find thou the means ,  and I’ll find such a man . 	find out the way ,  and I’ll find the right man . 
but now I’ll tell thee joyful tidings ,  girl . 	but now I have joyful news for you ,  girl . 
and joy comes well in such a needy time . 	and it’s good to have joy in such a joyless time . 
what are they ,  beseech your ladyship ? 	please tell me . 
well ,  well ,  thou hast a careful father ,  child . 	well ,  well ,  you have a careful father ,  child . 
madam ,  in happy time ,  what day is that ? 	madam ,  tell me quickly ,  what day is that ? 
marry ,  my child ,  early next Thursday morn ,  The gallant ,  young ,  and noble gentleman ,  The County Paris ,  at Saint Peter’s Church ,  Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride . 	Indeed ,  my child ,  at Saint Peter’s Church early Thursday morning ,  the gallant ,  young ,  and noble gentleman Count Paris will happily make you a joyful bride . 
now ,  by Saint Peter’s Church and Peter too ,  He shall not make me there a joyful bride . 	now ,  I swear by Saint Peter’s Church and Peter too ,  he will not make me a joyful bride there . 
I wonder at this haste ,  that I must wed Ere he ,  that should be husband ,  comes to woo . 	how can I marry him ,  this husband ,  before he comes to court me ? 
I pray you ,  tell my lord and father ,  madam ,  I will not marry yet . 	please ,  tell my father ,  madam ,  I won’t marry yet . 
and when I do ,  I swear It shall be Romeo ,  whom you know I hate ,  Rather than Paris . 	and ,  when I do marry ,  I swear ,  it will be Romeo ,  whom you know I hate ,  rather than Paris . 
these are news indeed ! 	that’s really news ! 
here comes your father . 	here comes your father . 
tell him so yourself ,  And see how he will take it at your hands . 	tell him so yourself ,  and see how he takes the news . 
how now ? 	what are you ,  girl ? 
a conduit ,  girl ? 	some kind of fountain ? 
what ,  still in tears ,  Evermore showering ? 	why are you still crying ? 
have you delivered to her our decree ? 	have you told her our decision ? 
I would the fool were married to her grave ! 	I wish the fool were dead and married to her grave ! 
how ,  will she none ? 	how can this be ? 
Is she not proud ? 	Isn’t she proud of such a match ? 
doth she not count her blessed ,  Unworthy as she is ,  that we have wrought So worthy a gentleman to be her bride ? 	doesn’t she realize how unworthy she is of the gentleman we have found to be her bridegroom ? 
not proud you have ,  but thankful that you have . 	but I am thankful that you have found it . 
how ,  how ,  how ,  how ? 	what is this ? 
chopped logic ! 	what is this fuzzy logic ? 
what is this ? 	what is this ? 
proud ,  ”  and  “ I thank you ,  ”  and  “ I thank you not ,  ”  And yet  “ not proud ”  ? 	I hear you say  “ proud ”  and  “ I thank you ,  ”  and then  “ no thank you ”  and  “ not proud ,  ”  you spoiled little girl . 
out ,  you green sickness ,  carrion ! 	you disgust me ,  you little bug ! 
out ,  you baggage ! 	you worthless girl ! 
you tallow face ! 	you pale face ! 
fie ,  fie ! 	shame on you ! 
what ,  are you mad ? 	what ,  are you crazy ? 
good Father ,  I beseech you on my knees ,  Hear me with patience but to speak a word . 	good father ,  I’m begging you on my knees ,  be patient and listen to me say just one thing . 
speak not . 	don’t say anything . 
reply not . 	don’t reply . 
do not answer me . 	don’t talk back to me . 
out on her ,  hilding ! 	she disgusts me ,  the little hussy ! 
god in heaven bless her ! 	god in heaven bless her ! 
you are to blame ,  my lord ,  to rate her so . 	my lord ,  you’re wrong to berate her like that . 
and why ,  my Lady Wisdom ? 	and why ,  wise lady ? 
smatter with your gossips ,  go . 	go blabber with your gossiping friends . 
I speak no treason . 	I’ve said nothing wrong . 
oh ,  God 'i' good e'en . 	oh ,  for God’s sake . 
may not one speak ? 	can’t I say something ? 
peace ,  you mumbling fool ! 	be quiet ,  you mumbling fool ! 
utter your gravity o'er a gossip’s bowl ,  For here we need it not . 	we don’t need to hear it . 
you are too hot . 	you’re getting too angry . 
god’s bread ! 	goddammit ! 
It makes me mad . 	It makes me mad . 
day ,  night ,  hour ,  tide ,  time ,  work ,  play ,  Alone ,  in company ,  still my care hath been To have her matched . 	day and night ,  hour after hour ,  all the time ,  at work ,  at play ,  alone ,  in company ,  my top priority has always been to find her a husband . 
thursday is near . 	thursday is coming . 
lay hand on heart ,  advise . 	put your hand on your heart and listen to my advice . 
an you be mine ,  I’ll give you to my friend . 	If you act like my daughter ,  I’ll marry you to my friend . 
trust to ’t ,  bethink you . 	think about it . 
I’ll not be forsworn . 	I won’t break this promise . 
delay this marriage for a month ,  a week . 	delay this marriage for a month ,  or a week . 
or ,  if you do not ,  make the bridal bed In that dim monument where Tybalt lies . 	or ,  if you don’t delay ,  make my wedding bed in the tomb where Tybalt lies . 
talk not to me ,  for I’ll not speak a word . 	don’t talk to me ,  because I won’t say a word . 
do as thou wilt ,  for I have done with thee . 	do as you please ,  because I’m done worrying about you . 
o God ! —O Nurse ,  how shall this be prevented ? 	oh God ! —Oh Nurse ,  how can this be stopped ? 
my husband is on earth ,  my faith in heaven . 	my husband is alive on earth ,  my vows of marriage are in heaven . 
how shall that faith return again to earth ,  Unless that husband send it me from heaven By leaving earth ? 	how can I bring those promises back down to earth ,  unless my husband sends them back down to me by dying and going to heaven ? 
comfort me . 	give me comfort . 
hast thou not a word of joy ? 	don’t you have one word of joy ? 
some comfort ,  Nurse . 	give me some comfort ,  Nurse . 
oh ,  he’s a lovely gentleman . 	oh ,  he’s a lovely gentleman ! 
romeo’s a dishclout to him . 	romeo’s a dishcloth compared to him . 
an eagle ,  madam ,  Hath not so green ,  so quick ,  so fair an eye As Paris hath . 	madam ,  an eagle does not have eyes as green ,  as quick ,  and as fair as the eyes of Paris . 
beshrew my very heart ,  I think you are happy in this second match ,  For it excels your first . 	curse my very heart ,  but I think you should be happy in this second marriage ,  because it’s better than your first . 
or if it did not ,  Your first is dead ,  or ’twere as good he were ,  As living here and you no use of him . 	even if it’s not better ,  your first marriage is over . 
speakest thou from thy heart ? 	are you speaking from your heart ? 
amen ! 	amen ! 
what ? 	what ? 
well ,  thou hast comforted me marvelous much . 	well ,  you have given me great comfort . 
go in ,  and tell my lady I am gone ,  Having displeased my father ,  to Lawrence’s cell To make confession and to be absolved . 	I made my father angry ,  so I went to Friar Lawrence’s cell to confess and be forgiven . 
marry ,  I will ,  and this is wisely done . 	alright ,  I will . 
o most wicked fiend ! 	oh ,  that most wicked fiend ! 
I’ll to the friar to know his remedy . 	I’m going to the Friar to find out his solution . 
If all else fail ,  myself have power to die . 	If everything else fails ,  at least I have the power to take my own life . 
on Thursday ,  sir ? 	on Thursday ,  sir ? 
the time is very short . 	that’s very soon . 
you say you do not know the lady’s mind . 	you say you don’t know what the girl thinks . 
I like it not . 	I don’t like it . 
now do you know the reason of this haste . 	now you know the reason for the rush . 
look ,  sir ,  here comes the lady toward my cell . 	look ,  sir ,  here comes the lady walking toward my cell . 
happily met ,  my lady and my wife . 	I’m happy to meet you ,  my lady and my wife . 
that may be ,  sir ,  when I may be a wife . 	that might be the case sir , 
good morrow ,  cousin . 	good morning ,  cousin . 
Is the day so young ? 	Is it that early in the day ? 
but new struck nine . 	It’s only just now nine o'clock . 
was that my father that went hence so fast ? 	was that my father who left here in such a hurry ? 
It was . 	It was . 
not having that which ,  having ,  makes them short . 	I don’t have the thing that makes time fly . 
In love ? 	you’re in love ? 
out . 	out . 
of love ? 	out of love ? 
where shall we dine ? —O me ! 	so ,  where should we eat ? 
that  “ may be ”  must be ,  love ,  on Thursday next . 	that  “ may be ”  must be ,  love ,  on Thursday . 
what must be shall be . 	what must be will be . 
that’s a certain text . 	that is a certain truth . 
come you to make confession to this Father ? 	have you come to make confession to this father ? 
to answer that ,  I should confess to you . 	If I answered that question ,  I’d be making confession to you . 
do not deny to him that you love me . 	don’t deny to him that you love me . 
I will confess to you that I love him . 	I’ll confess to you that I love him . 
so will ye ,  I am sure ,  that you love me . 	you will also confess ,  I’m sure ,  that you love me . 
If I do so ,  it will be of more price Being spoke behind your back than to your face . 	If I do so ,  it will mean more if I say it behind your back than if I say it to your face . 
poor soul ,  thy face is much abused with tears . 	you poor soul ,  your face has suffered many tears . 
thy face is mine ,  and thou hast slandered it . 	your face is mine ,  and you have slandered it . 
my leisure serves me ,  pensive daughter ,  now . — My lord ,  we must entreat the time alone . 	I have time for you now ,  my sad daughter . 
god shield I should disturb devotion ! — Juliet ,  on Thursday early will I rouse ye . 	god forbid that I should prevent sacred devotion ! 
o Juliet ,  I already know thy grief . 	oh ,  Juliet ,  I already know about your sad situation . 
I hear thou must ,  and nothing may prorogue it ,  On Thursday next be married to this county . 	I hear that you must marry this count on Thursday ,  and that nothing can delay it . 
tell me not ,  Friar ,  that thou hear’st of this ,  Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it . 	don’t tell me that you’ve heard about this marriage ,  Friar ,  unless you can tell me how to prevent it . 
If in thy wisdom thou canst give no help ,  Do thou but call my resolution wise ,  And with this knife I’ll help it presently . 	If you who are so wise can’t help ,  please be kind enough to call my solution wise . 
hold ,  then . 	hold on ,  then . 
wednesday is tomorrow . 	tomorrow is Wednesday . 
tomorrow night look that thou lie alone . 	tomorrow night make sure that you are alone . 
let not the Nurse lie with thee in thy chamber . 	don’t let the Nurse stay with you in your bedroom . 
no warmth ,  no breath shall testify thou livest . 	give me the vial . 
give me ,  give me ! 	give it to me ! 
love give me strength ,  and strength shall help afford . 	love will give me strength ,  and strength will help me accomplish this plan . 
farewell ,  dear Father . 	goodbye ,  dear Father . 
you shall have none ill ,  sir ,  for I’ll try if they can lick their fingers . 	you won’t get any bad cooks from me . 
how canst thou try them so ? 	how can you test them like that ? 
therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with me . 	so the cooks who can’t lick their fingers aren’t hired . 
go ,  be gone . 	go ,  get out of here . 
we shall be much unfurnished for this time . 	we’re unprepared for this wedding celebration . 
ay ,  forsooth . 	yes ,  that’s true . 
see where she comes from shrift with merry look . 	look ,  she’s come home from confession with a happy look on her face . 
where I have learned me to repent the sin Of disobedient opposition To you and your behests ,  and am enjoined By holy Lawrence to fall prostrate here To beg your pardon . 	holy Father Lawrence instructed me to fall on my knees and beg your forgiveness . 
send for the county . 	send for the Count . 
go tell him of this . 	go tell him about this . 
I’ll have this knot knit up tomorrow morning . 	I’ll make this wedding happen tomorrow morning . 
I met the youthful lord at Lawrence' cell ,  And gave him what becomèd love I might ,  Not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty . 	I met the young man at Lawrence’s cell . 
why ,  I am glad on ’t . 	well ,  I’m glad about this . 
this is well . 	this is good . 
stand up . 	stand up . 
ay ,  marry ,  go ,  I say ,  and fetch him hither . — Now ,  afore God ,  this reverend holy friar ! 	yes ,  alright ,  go ,  I say ,  and bring him here . 
our whole city is much bound to him . 	now ,  before God ,  our whole city owes this friar a great debt . 
nurse ,  will you go with me into my closet To help me sort such needful ornaments As you think fit to furnish me tomorrow ? 	nurse ,  will you come with me to my closet and help me pick out the clothes and the jewelry I’ll need to wear tomorrow ? 
no ,  not till Thursday . 	no ,  not until Thursday . 
there is time enough . 	there’s plenty of time . 
we’ll to church tomorrow . 	we’ll have the wedding at the church tomorrow . 
tis now near night . 	It’s already almost night . 
tush ,  I will stir about ,  And all things shall be well ,  I warrant thee ,  wife . 	and everything will be alright ,  I promise you ,  wife . 
go thou to Juliet ,  help to deck up her . 	you should go to Juliet and dress her up . 
I’ll not to bed tonight . 	I’m not going to bed tonight . 
let me alone . 	leave me alone . 
I’ll play the housewife for this once . 	I’ll pretend to be the housewife for once . 
ay ,  those attires are best . 	yes ,  those are the best clothes . 
what ,  are you busy ,  ho ? 	what ,  are you busy ? 
need you my help ? 	do you need my help ? 
for ,  I am sure ,  you have your hands full all In this so sudden business . 	I’m sure you have your hands full preparing for the sudden festivities . 
good night . 	good night . 
farewell ! —God knows when we shall meet again . 	only God knows when we’ll meet again . 
my dismal scene I needs must act alone . 	In my desperate situation ,  I have to act alone . 
come ,  vial . 	alright ,  here’s the vial . 
what if this mixture do not work at all ? 	what if this mixture doesn’t work at all ? 
shall I be married then tomorrow morning ? 	will I be married tomorrow morning ? 
lie thou there . 	lie down right there . 
oh ,  look ! 	oh ,  look ! 
methinks I see my cousin’s ghost Seeking out Romeo ,  that did spit his body Upon a rapier’s point . 	I think I see my cousin Tybalt’s ghost . 
stay ,  Tybalt ,  stay ! 	wait ,  Tybalt ,  wait ! 
romeo ,  Romeo ,  Romeo ! 	romeo ,  Romeo ,  Romeo ! 
here’s drink . 	here’s a drink . 
I drink to thee . 	I drink to you . 
no ,  coz ,  I rather weep . 	no ,  cousin ,  I’m crying . 
good heart ,  at what ? 	good man ,  why are you crying ? 
why ,  such is love’s transgression . 	yes ,  this is what love does . 
what is it else ? 	what else is love ? 
a madness most discreet ,  A choking gall ,  and a preserving sweet . 	It’s a sweet lozenge that you choke on . 
farewell ,  my coz . 	goodbye ,  cousin . 
soft ! 	wait . 
I will go along . 	I’ll come with you . 
and if you leave me so ,  you do me wrong . 	If you leave me like this ,  you’re doing me wrong . 
tut ,  I have lost myself . 	I’m not myself . 
I am not here . 	I’m not here . 
tell me in sadness ,  who is that you love . 	tell me seriously ,  who is the one you love ? 
what ,  shall I groan and tell thee ? 	you mean I should groan and tell you ? 
groan ! 	groan ? 
why ,  no . 	no . 
but sadly ,  tell me who . 	but tell me seriously who it is . 
hold ,  take these keys ,  and fetch more spices ,  Nurse . 	take these keys and get more spices ,  Nurse . 
they call for dates and quinces in the pastry . 	they’re calling for dates and quinces in the pastry kitchen . 
come ,  stir ,  stir ,  stir ! 	come on ,  wake up ,  wake up ,  wake up ! 
the second cock hath crowed . 	the second cock crowed . 
the curfew bell hath rung . 	the curfew - bell rang . 
spare not for the cost . 	don’t worry about the cost . 
go ,  you cot - quean ,  go . 	go ,  you old housewife ,  go . 
get you to bed ,  faith . 	go to bed ,  dear . 
you’ll be sick tomorrow For this night’s watching . 	you’ll be sick tomorrow because you’ve stayed up all night . 
I have watched ere now All night for lesser cause ,  and ne'er been sick . 	I’ve stayed up all night many times before for less important matters ,  and I’ve never gotten sick . 
ay ,  you have been a mouse - hunt in your time ,  But I will watch you from such watching now . 	yes ,  you’ve been a ladies' man in your time . 
a jealous hood ,  a jealous hood ! 	a jealous woman ,  a jealous woman ! 
now ,  fellow ,  What is there ? 	now ,  fellow ,  what have you got there ? 
make haste ,  make haste ,  sirrah . 	hurry up ,  hurry up . 
I have a head ,  sir ,  that will find out logs ,  And never trouble Peter for the matter . 	I’m smart enough to find the logs myself without bothering Peter . 
mass ,  and well said . 	right ,  and well said . 
a merry whoreson ,  ha ! 	that guy’s funny . 
thou shalt be loggerhead . —Good faith ,  ’tis day . 	goodness ,  it’s daylight . 
wife ! 	wife ! 
what ,  ho ? 	what ? 
what ,  Nurse ,  I say ! 	hey ,  Nurse ! 
go waken Juliet . 	go wake Juliet . 
go and trim her up . 	go and get her dressed . 
I’ll go and chat with Paris . 	I’ll go and chat with Paris . 
hie ,  make haste ,  Make haste . 	hey ,  hurry up ,  hurry up ! 
the bridegroom he is come already . 	the bridegroom is already here . 
make haste ,  I say . 	hurry up ,  I say . 
mistress ! 	mistress ! 
what ,  mistress ! 	hey ,  mistress ! 
juliet ! —Fast ,  I warrant her ,  she . — Why ,  lamb ! 	I bet she’s fast asleep . 
why ,  lady ! 	hey ,  lady ! 
why ,  love ,  I say . 	hey ,  love ,  I say ! 
madam ! 	madam ! 
sweet - heart ! 	sweetheart ! 
why ,  bride ! 	hey ,  bride ! 
what ,  not a word ? 	what ,  you don’t say a word ? 
you take your pennyworths now . 	you take your beauty sleep now . 
how sound is she asleep ! 	how sound asleep she is ! 
ay ,  let the county take you in your bed . 	yes ,  let the count take you in your bed . 
he’ll fright you up ,  i' faith . 	he’ll wake you up ,  I bet . 
will it not be ? 	won’t he ? 
what noise is here ? 	what’s all the noise in here ? 
o lamentable day ! 	oh ,  sad day ! 
what is the matter ? 	what is the matter ? 
look ,  look . 	look ,  look ! 
o heavy day ! 	oh ,  what a sad day ! 
o me ,  O me ! 	oh my ,  Oh my ! 
my child ,  my only life ,  Revive ,  look up ,  or I will die with thee ! — Help ,  help ! 	my child ,  my reason for living ,  wake up ,  look up ,  or I’ll die with you ! 
for shame ,  bring Juliet forth . 	for shame ,  bring Juliet out here . 
her lord is come . 	her bridegroom is here . 
she’s dead ,  deceased ,  she’s dead . 	she’s dead ,  deceased ,  she’s dead . 
alack the day ! 	curse the day ! 
alack the day . 	curse the day ! 
she’s dead ,  she’s dead ,  she’s dead ! 	she’s dead ,  she’s dead ,  she’s dead ! 
ha ? 	no ! 
let me see her . 	let me see her . 
out ,  alas ! 	oh no ! 
she’s cold . 	she’s cold . 
her blood is settled ,  and her joints are stiff . 	her blood has stopped ,  and her joints are stiff . 
life and these lips have long been separated . 	she’s been dead for some time . 
death lies on her like an untimely frost Upon the sweetest flower of all the field . 	she’s dead ,  like a beautiful flower ,  killed by an unseasonable frost . 
o lamentable day ! 	oh ,  sad day ! 
o woeful time . 	oh ,  this is a painful time ! 
death ,  that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail ,  Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak . 	death ,  which has taken her away to make me cry ,  now ties up my tongue and won’t let me speak . 
come ,  is the bride ready to go to church ? 	come ,  is the bride ready to go to church ? 
ready to go ,  but never to return . 	she’s ready to go ,  but she’ll never return . 
death is my son - in - law . 	death is my son - in - law . 
death is my heir . 	death is my heir . 
my daughter he hath wedded . 	my daughter married death . 
I will die ,  And leave him all . 	I will die and leave Death everything . 
life ,  living ,  all is Death’s . 	life ,  wealth ,  everything belongs to Death . 
have I thought long to see this morning’s face ,  And doth it give me such a sight as this ? 	have I waited so long to see this morning ,  only to see this ? 
accursed ,  unhappy ,  wretched ,  hateful day ! 	accursed ,  unhappy ,  wretched ,  hateful day ! 
most miserable hour that e'er time saw In lasting labor of his pilgrimage . 	this is the most miserable hour of all time ! 
but one ,  poor one ,  one poor and loving child ,  But one thing to rejoice and solace in ,  And cruel death hath catched it from my sight ! 	I had only one child ,  one poor child ,  one poor and loving child ,  the one thing I had to rejoice and comfort myself ,  and cruel Death has stolen it from me ! 
o woe ! 	oh pain ! 
o woeful ,  woeful ,  woeful day ! 	oh painful ,  painful ,  painful day ! 
never was seen so black a day as this . 	there has never been so black a day as today . 
o woeful day ,  O woeful day ! 	oh painful day ,  Oh painful day ! 
beguiled ,  divorcèd ,  wrongèd ,  spited ,  slain ! 	she was tricked ,  divorced ,  wronged ,  spited ,  killed ! 
most detestable Death ,  by thee beguiled ,  By cruel ,  cruel thee quite overthrown ! 	cruel ,  cruel Death killed her . 
o love ! 	oh love ! 
o life ! 	oh life ! 
not life ,  but love in death . 	there is no life ,  but my love is dead ! 
despised ,  distressèd ,  hated ,  martyred ,  killed ! 	despised ,  distressed ,  hated ,  martyred ,  killed ! 
uncomfortable time ,  why camest thou now To murder ,  murder our solemnity ? 	why did this have to happen now ? 
my soul ,  and not my child ! 	my soul and not my child ! 
dead art thou ! 	you are dead ! 
peace ,  ho ,  for shame ! 	be quiet ,  for shame ! 
confusion’s cure lives not In these confusions . 	the cure for confusion is not yelling and screaming . 
heaven and yourself Had part in this fair maid . 	you had this child with the help of heaven . 
now heaven hath all , 	now heaven has her . 
and all the better is it for the maid . 	she is in a better place . 
your part in her you could not keep from death ,  But heaven keeps his part in eternal life . 	you could not prevent her from dying someday ,  but heaven will give her eternal life . 
the most you sought was her promotion ,  For ’twas your heaven she should be advanced . 	the most you hope for was for her to marry wealthy and rise up the social ladder—that was your idea of heaven . 
and weep ye now ,  seeing she is advanced Above the clouds ,  as high as heaven itself ? 	and now you cry ,  even though she has risen up above the clouds ,  as high as heaven itself ? 
oh ,  in this love ,  you love your child so ill That you run mad ,  seeing that she is well . 	oh ,  in this love ,  you love your child so badly ,  that you go mad ,  even though she is in heaven . 
she’s not well married that lives married long ,  But she’s best married that dies married young . 	It is best to marry well and die young ,  better than to be married for a long time . 
our instruments to melancholy bells ,  Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast . 	our wedding banquet will become a sad burial feast . 
our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change ,  Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse ,  And all things change them to the contrary . 	our celebratory hymns will change to sad funeral marches . 
every one prepare To follow this fair corse unto her grave . 	everyone prepare to take this beautiful corpse to her grave . 
the heavens do lour upon you for some ill .  Move them no more by crossing their high will . 	don’t disturb the heavens any more by trying to go against heaven’s will . 
faith ,  we may put up our pipes and be gone . 	well ,  we can put away our pipes and go home . 
ay ,  by my troth ,  the case may be amended . 	yes ,  well ,  things could get better . 
not a dump ,  we . 	no ,  not a sad song . 
tis no time to play now . 	It’s not the right time to play . 
you will not then ? 	you won’t ,  then ? 
no . 	no . 
I will then give it you soundly . 	then I’ll really give it to you . 
what will you give us ? 	what will you give us ? 
no money ,  on my faith ,  but the gleek . 	no money ,  I swear . 
I will give you the minstrel . 	I’ll call you a minstrel . 
then I will give you the serving creature . 	then I’ll call you a serving - creature . 
then will I lay the serving creature’s dagger on your pate . 	then I’ll smack you on the head with the serving - creature’s knife . 
I will carry no crotchets . 	I’ll make you sing . 
then have at you with my wit . 	do you hear me ? 
answer me like men . 	answer me like men . 
marry ,  sir ,  because silver hath a sweet sound . 	well ,  sir ,  because silver has a sweet sound . 
prates too . —What say you ,  James Soundpost ? 	another studpid answer ! 
faith ,  I know not what to say . 	what do you say ,  James  Well ,  I don’t know what to say . 
I will say for you . 	I’ll answer for you . 
It is  “ music with her silver sound ”  because musicians have no gold for sounding . 	It is  “ music with her silver sound ,  ”  because musicians have no gold to use to make sounds . 
what a pestilent knave is this same ! 	what an annoying man ,  this guy is ! 
hang him ,  Jack ! 	forget about him ,  Jack ! 
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep ,  My dreams presage some joyful news at hand . 	If I can trust my dreams ,  then some joyful news is coming soon . 
ah me ! 	oh my ! 
how sweet is love itself possessed When but love’s shadows are so rich in joy ! 	how sweet it would be to actually have the woman I love ,  when merely thinking about love makes me so happy . 
news from Verona ! —How now ,  Balthasar ? 	do you have news from Verona ! —What is it ,  Balthasar ? 
dost thou not bring me letters from the friar ? 	do you bring me a letter from the friar ? 
how doth my lady ? 	how is my wife ? 
Is my father well ? 	Is my father well ? 
how fares my Juliet ? 	how is my Juliet ? 
that I ask again ,  For nothing can be ill if she be well . 	I ask that again because nothing can be wrong if she is well . 
then she is well ,  and nothing can be ill . 	then she is well ,  and nothing is wrong . 
her body sleeps in Capels' monument ,  And her immortal part with angels lives . 	her body sleeps in the Capulet tomb ,  and her immortal soul lives with the angels in heaven . 
I saw her laid low in her kindred’s vault And presently took post to tell it you . 	I saw her buried in her family’s tomb ,  and then I came here to tell you the news . 
o ,  pardon me for bringing these ill news ,  Since you did leave it for my office ,  sir . 	oh ,  pardon me for bringing this bad news ,  but you told me it was my job ,  sir . 
a sick man in sadness makes his will ,  A word ill urged to one that is so ill . 	you wouldn’t tell a sick man he  “ seriously ”  has to make his will—it would just make him worse . 
In sadness ,  cousin ,  I do love a woman . 	seriously ,  cousin ,  I love a woman . 
a right good markman ! 	then you were right on target . 
and she’s fair I love . 	the woman I love is beautiful . 
a right fair mark ,  fair coz ,  is soonest hit . 	a beautiful target is the one that gets hit the fastest . 
well ,  in that hit you miss . 	well ,  you’re not on target there . 
she hath ,  and in that sparing makes huge waste ,  For beauty ,  starved with her severity ,  Cuts beauty off from all posterity . 	yes she has ,  and by keeping celibate ,  she wastes her beauty . 
she is too fair ,  too wise ,  wisely too fair ,  To merit bliss by making me despair . 	she’s too beautiful and too wise to deserve heaven’s blessing by making me despair . 
be ruled by me . 	take my advice . 
forget to think of her . 	don’t think about her . 
o ,  teach me how I should forget to think ! 	teach me to forget to think ! 
Is it e'en so ? 	Is it really true ? 
then I defy you ,  stars ! 	then I rebel against you ,  stars ! 
thou know’st my lodging . 	you know where I live . 
get me ink and paper ,  And hire post horses . 	get me some ink and paper ,  and hire some horses to ride . 
I will hence tonight . 	I will leave here for Verona tonight . 
I do beseech you ,  sir ,  have patience . 	please ,  sir ,  have patience . 
your looks are pale and wild ,  and do import Some misadventure . 	you look pale and wild as if you’re going to hurt yourself . 
tush ,  thou art deceived . 	tsk ,  you’re wrong . 
leave me and do the thing I bid thee do . 	leave me and do what I told you to do . 
hast thou no letters to me from the friar ? 	don’t you have a letter for me from the friar ? 
no ,  my good lord . 	no ,  my good lord . 
no matter . 	no matter . 
get thee gone ,  And hire those horses . 	get on your way and hire those horses . 
I’ll be with thee straight . 	I’ll be with you right away . 
well ,  Juliet ,  I will lie with thee tonight . 	well ,  Juliet ,  I’ll lie with you tonight . 
let’s see for means . 	let’s see how . 
o mischief ,  thou art swift To enter in the thoughts of desperate men ! 	destructive thoughts come quickly to the minds of desperate men ! 
as I remember ,  this should be the house . 	as I remember ,  this should be the house . 
being holiday ,  the beggar’s shop is shut . 	today’s a holiday ,  so the beggar’s shop is shut . 
what ,  ho ! 	hey ! 
apothecary ! 	pharmacist ! 
who calls so loud ? 	who’s that calling so loud ? 
come hither ,  man . 	come here ,  man . 
I see that thou art poor . 	I see that you are poor . 
hold ,  there is forty ducats . 	here are forty ducats . 
art thou so bare and full of wretchedness ,  And fear’st to die ? 	you’re this poor and wretched and still afraid to die ? 
famine is in thy cheeks . 	your cheeks are thin because of hunger . 
need and oppression starveth in thine eyes . 	I can see in your eyes that you’re starving . 
the world is not thy friend nor the world’s law . 	the world is not your friend ,  and neither is the law . 
the world affords no law to make thee rich . 	the world doesn’t make laws to make you rich . 
buy food ,  and get thyself in flesh . — Come ,  cordial and not poison ,  go with me To Juliet’s grave ,  for there must I use thee . 	I pay you because you’re poor ,  not because you want me to buy this . 
holy Franciscan Friar ! 	holy Franciscan Friar ! 
brother ,  ho ! 	brother ,  hey ! 
this same should be the voice of Friar John . 	that sounds like the voice of Friar John . 
welcome from Mantua . 	welcome back from Mantua . 
what says Romeo ? 	what does Romeo say ? 
or ,  if his mind be writ ,  give me his letter . 	or ,  if he wrote down his thoughts ,  give me his letter . 
so that my speed to Mantua there was stayed . 	I couldn’t go to Mantua because I was stuck there . 
who bare my letter ,  then ,  to Romeo ? 	then who took my letter to Romeo ? 
unhappy fortune ! 	unhappy fortune ! 
brother ,  I’ll go and bring it thee . 	brother ,  I’ll go and bring it to you . 
now must I to the monument alone . 	now I must go to the tomb alone . 
within this three hours will fair Juliet wake . 	within three hours Juliet will wake up . 
but I will write again to Mantua ,  And keep her at my cell till Romeo come . 	but I’ll write again to Mantua ,  and I’ll keep her in my cell until Romeo comes . 
poor living corse ,  closed in a dead man’s tomb ! 	she’s shut inside a dead man’s tomb ! 
give me thy torch ,  boy . 	give me your torch ,  boy . 
hence ,  and stand aloof . 	go away and stay apart from me . 
yet put it out ,  for I would not be seen . 	put the torch out ,  so I can’t be seen . 
give me those flowers . 	give me those flowers . 
do as I bid thee ,  go . 	do as I tell you . 
yet I will adventure . 	go . 
the boy gives warning something doth approach . 	the boy is warning me that someone approaches . 
what cursèd foot wanders this way tonight To cross my obsequies and true love’s rite ? 	who’s ruining my rituals of true love ? 
what with a torch ! 	It’s someone with a torch ! 
muffle me ,  night ,  awhile . 	I must hide in the darkness for awhile . 
give me that mattock and the wrenching iron . 	give me that pickax and the crowbar . 
I will be gone ,  sir ,  and not trouble you . 	I’ll go ,  sir ,  and I won’t bother you . 
so shalt thou show me friendship . 	that’s the way to show me friendship . 
take thou that . 	take this . 
good gentle youth ,  tempt not a desperate man . 	good and noble young man ,  don’t mess with someone who’s desperate . 
fly hence and leave me . 	get away from here and leave me . 
think upon these gone . 	think about the ones who have died . 
let them affright thee . 	let them put fear in your heart . 
I beseech thee ,  youth ,  Put not another sin upon my head By urging me to fury . 	please ,  young man ,  don’t make me angry . 
o ,  be gone ! 	oh ,  go away ! 
stay not ,  be gone . 	don’t stay here ,  go away . 
live ,  and hereafter say A madman’s mercy bid thee run away . 	live ,  and from now on ,  say a madman mercifully told you to run away . 
I do defy thy commination And apprehend thee for a felon here . 	I’m arresting you as a criminal . 
wilt thou provoke me ? 	are you going to provoke me ? 
then have at thee ,  boy ! 	alright ,  let’s fight ,  boy ! 
o Lord ,  they fight ! 	oh Lord ,  they’re fighting ! 
I will go call the watch . 	I’ll go call the watch . 
open the tomb . 	alright ,  I will . 
mercutio’s kinsman ,  noble County Paris . 	It’s Mercutio’s relative ,  noble Count Paris ! 
what said my man ,  when my betossèd soul Did not attend him as we rode ? 	what did my man say ? 
I think He told me Paris should have married Juliet . 	I think he told me Paris was about to marry Juliet . 
said he not so ? 	Isn’t that what he said ? 
or did I dream it so ? 	or was I dreaming ? 
I’ll bury thee in a triumphant grave . 	I’ll bury you in a magnificent grave . 
a grave ? 	a grave ? 
oh ,  no . 	oh no ! 
a lantern ,  slaughtered youth ,  For here lies Juliet ,  and her beauty makes This vault a feasting presence full of light . 	juliet lies here ,  and her beauty fills this tomb with light . 
death ,  that hath sucked the honey of thy breath ,  Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty . 	death has sucked the honey from your breath ,  but it has not yet ruined your beauty . 
thou art not conquered . 	you haven’t been conquered . 
o ,  what more favor can I do to thee ,  Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain To sunder his that was thine enemy ? 	oh ,  what better favor can I do for you than to kill the man who killed you with the same hand that made you die young . 
shall I believe That unsubstantial death is amorous ,  And that the lean abhorrèd monster keeps Thee here in dark to be his paramour ? 	should I believe that death is in love with you ,  and that the awful monster keeps you here to be his mistress ? 
here ,  here will I remain With worms that are thy chamber maids . 	here ,  here I’ll remain with worms that are your chamber - maids . 
oh ,  here Will I set up my everlasting rest ,  And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars From this world - wearied flesh . 	oh ,  I’ll rest here forever . 
eyes ,  look your last . 	eyes ,  look out for the last time ! 
arms ,  take your last embrace . 	arms ,  make your last embrace ! 
thy drugs are quick . 	his drugs work quickly . 
thus with a kiss I die . 	so I die with a kiss . 
these happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows ,  Being black ,  puts us in mind they hide the fair . 	look at other beautiful girls . 
saint Francis be my speed ! 	saint Francis ,  help me ! 
how oft tonight Have my old feet stumbled at graves ! —Who’s there ? 	how often tonight have my old feet stumbled on gravestones ! 
here’s one ,  a friend ,  and one that knows you well . 	I’m a friend ,  a friend who knows you well . 
bliss be upon you ! 	god bless you ! 
tell me ,  good my friend ,  What torch is yond that vainly lends his light To grubs and eyeless skulls ? 	tell me ,  my good friend ,  what is that light over there ? 
as I discern ,  It burneth in the Capels' monument . 	It looks to me like it’s burning in the Capulet tomb . 
who is it ? 	who is it ? 
romeo . 	romeo . 
how long hath he been there ? 	how long has he been there ? 
full half an hour . 	for a full half hour . 
go with me to the vault . 	go with me to the tomb . 
I dare not ,  sir . 	I don’t dare ,  sir . 
stay ,  then . 	stay ,  then . 
I’ll go alone . 	I’ll go alone . 
fear comes upon me . 	I’m suddenly afraid . 
oh ,  much I fear some ill unthrifty thing . 	oh ,  I’m very scared something awful has happened . 
as I did sleep under this yew tree here ,  I dreamt my master and another fought ,  And that my master slew him . 	as I slept under this yew - tree here ,  I had a dream that my master and someone else were fighting and that my master killed him . 
romeo ! — Alack ,  alack ,  what blood is this ,  which stains The stony entrance of the sepulcher ? 	what is this blood that stains the stony entrance of this tomb ? 
o comfortable Friar ! 	oh friendly friar ! 
where is my lord ? 	where is my husband ? 
I do remember well where I should be ,  And there I am . 	I remember very well where I should be ,  and here I am . 
where is my Romeo ? 	where is my Romeo ? 
I hear some noise . 	I hear some noise . 
lady ,  come from that nest Of death ,  contagion ,  and unnatural sleep . 	lady ,  come out of the tomb . 
a greater power than we can contradict Hath thwarted our intents . 	a greater power than we can fight has ruined our plan . 
come ,  come away . 	come ,  come away . 
thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead ,  And Paris too . 	your husband lies dead there ,  and Paris too . 
come ,  I’ll dispose of thee Among a sisterhood of holy nuns . 	come ,  I’ll place you among the sisterhood of holy nuns . 
a cup ,  closed in my true love’s hand ? 	It’s a cup ,  closed in my true love’s hand ? 
poison ,  I see ,  hath been his timeless end . — O churl ,  drunk all ,  and left no friendly drop To help me after ? 	poison ,  I see ,  has been the cause of his death . 
I will kiss thy lips . 	I will kiss your lips . 
haply some poison yet doth hang on them ,  To make me die with a restorative . 	perhaps there’s still some poison on them ,  to make me die with a medicinal kiss . 
yea ,  noise ? 	oh ,  noise ? 
then I’ll be brief . 	then I’ll be quick . 
o happy dagger ,  This is thy sheath . 	oh ,  good ,  a knife ! 
there rust and let me die . 	rust inside my body and let me die . 
this is the place . 	this is the place . 
there ,  where the torch doth burn . 	there ,  where the torch is burning . 
the ground is bloody . —Search about the churchyard . 	the ground is bloody . 
pitiful sight ! 	this is a pitiful sight ! 
here lies the county slain ,  And Juliet bleeding ,  warm and newly dead ,  Who here hath lain these two days buried . — Go ,  tell the Prince . 	go ,  tell the Prince . 
run to the Capulets . 	run to the Capulets . 
raise up the Montagues . 	wake up the Montagues . 
some others search . 	have some others search . 
here’s Romeo’s man . 	here’s Romeo’s man . 
we found him in the churchyard . 	we found him in the churchyard . 
hold him in safety till the Prince come hither . 	hold him in custody until the Prince gets here . 
here is a friar that trembles ,  sighs and weeps . 	here is a friar who’s trembling ,  sighing and weeping . 
we took this mattock and this spade from him As he was coming from this churchyard’s side . 	we took this pickax and this shovel from him ,  as he was walking from this side of the graveyard . 
a great suspicion . 	very suspicious . 
stay the friar too . 	hold the friar too . 
what misadventure is so early up That calls our person from our morning rest ? 	what crimes happen so early in the morning that I have to wake up before the usual time ? 
what should it be that is so shrieked abroad ? 	what’s the problem ,  that they cry out so loud ? 
oh ,  the people in the street cry  “ Romeo ,  ”  Some  “ Juliet ,  ”  and some  “ Paris ,  ”  and all run With open outcry toward our monument . 	some people in the street are crying  “ Romeo .  ”  Some are crying  “ Juliet ,  ”  and some are crying  “ Paris .  ”  They’re all running in an open riot toward our tomb . 
search ,  seek ,  and know how this foul murder comes . 	Investigate how this foul murder came about . 
o heavens ! 	oh heavens ! 
o wife ,  look how our daughter bleeds ! 	oh wife ,  look at how our daughter bleeds ! 
this dagger hath mista'en—for ,  lo ,  his house Is empty on the back of Montague ,  And it mis - sheathèd in my daughter’s bosom . 	that knife should be in its sheath on that Montague’s back ,  but instead it’s mis - sheathed in my daughter’s breast . 
o me ! 	oh my ! 
this sight of death is as a bell ,  That warns my old age to a sepulcher . 	this sight of death is like a bell that warns me I’m old and I’ll die soon . 
alas ,  my liege ,  my wife is dead tonight . 	oh ,  my liege ,  my wife died tonight . 
grief of my son’s exile hath stopped her breath . 	sadness over my son’s exile stopped her breath . 
what further woe conspires against mine age ? 	what further pain must I endure in my old age ? 
look ,  and thou shalt see . 	look ,  and you’ll see . 
seal up the mouth of outrage for a while ,  Till we can clear these ambiguities And know their spring ,  their head ,  their true descent ,  And then will I be general of your woes ,  And lead you even to death . 	and then I’ll be the leader of pain ,  and maybe I’ll lead you as far as death . 
meantime forbear ,  And let mischance be slave to patience . — Bring forth the parties of suspicion . 	In the meantime ,  hold on ,  and be patient . 
I am the greatest ,  able to do least ,  Yet most suspected ,  as the time and place Doth make against me ,  of this direful murder . 	I am the greatest ,  but I was able to do the least . 
and here I stand ,  both to impeach and purge ,  Myself condemnèd and myself excused . 	I have already condemned and excused myself . 
then say at once what thou dost know in this . 	tell us what you know about this affair . 
I will be brief ,  for my short date of breath Is not so long as is a tedious tale . 	I will be brief because I’m not going to live long enough to tell a boring story . 
meantime I writ to Romeo ,  That he should hither come as this dire night ,  To help to take her from her borrowed grave ,  Being the time the potion’s force should cease . 	In the meantime I wrote to Romeo and told him to come here on this awful night to help remove her from her temporary grave when the sleeping potion wore off . 
what can he say in this ? 	I know all of this . 
their course of love ,  the tidings of her death . 	I brought my master news of Juliet’s death . 
montague ! 	give me the letter . 
o brother Montague ,  give me thy hand . 	oh ,  brother Montague ,  give me your hand . 
but now ,  my lord ,  what say you to my suit ? 	but what do you say to my request ? 
but saying o'er what I have said before . 	I can only repeat what I’ve said before . 
my child is yet a stranger in the world . 	my daughter is still very young . 
she hath not seen the change of fourteen years . 	she’s not even fourteen years old . 
younger than she are happy mothers made . 	girls younger than she often marry and become happy mothers . 
and too soon marred are those so early made . 	girls who marry so young grow up too soon . 
but woo her ,  gentle Paris ,  get her heart . 	but go ahead and charm her ,  gentle Paris; make her love you . 
this night I hold an old accustomed feast ,  Whereto I have invited many a guest Such as I love . 	tonight I’m having a feast that we’ve celebrated for many years . 
from forth the fatal loins of these two foes A pair of star - crossed lovers take their life ,  Whose misadventured piteous overthrows Doth with their death bury their parents' strife . 	at my humble house tonight ,  you can expect to see dazzling stars that walk on the ground and light the sky from below . 
the fearful passage of their death - marked love And the continuance of their parents' rage ,  Which ,  but their children’s end ,  naught could remove ,  Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage— The which ,  if you with patient ears attend ,  What here shall miss ,  our toil shall strive to mend . 	In the beautiful city of Verona ,  where our story takes place ,  a long - standing hatred between two families erupts into new violence ,  and citizens stain their hands with the blood of their fellow citizens . 
such comfort as do lusty young men feel When well - appareled April on the heel Of limping winter treads . 	two unlucky children of these enemy families become lovers and commit suicide . 
even such delight Among fresh fennel buds shall you this night Inherit at my house . 	their unfortunate deaths put an end to their parents' feud . 
go ,  sirrah ,  trudge about Through fair Verona . 	come along with me . 
find them out whose names are written here ? 	find the people whose names are on this list ? 
It is written ,  that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor with his last ,  the fisher with his pencil and the painter with his nets . 	It is written that shoemakers and tailors should play with each others' tools ,  that fisherman should play with paints ,  and painters should play with with fishing nets . 
but I am sent to find those persons whose names are here writ ,  and can never find what names the writing person hath here writ . 	but I’ve been sent to find the people whose names are written on this list ,  and I can’t read ! 
take thou some new infection to thy eye ,  And the rank poison of the old will die . 	but here come some people ,  right in the nick of time . 
your plantain leaf is excellent for that . 	for when you cut your shin . 
for what ,  I pray thee ? 	what ? 
why Romeo ,  art thou mad ? 	romeo ,  are you crazy ? 
not mad ,  but bound more than a madman is ,  Shut up in prison ,  kept without my food ,  Whipped and tormented and—Good e'en ,  good fellow . 	I’m locked up in a prison and deprived of food . 
god 'i' good e'en . 	I’m whipped and tortured— May God give you a good evening . 
I pray ,  sir ,  can you read ? 	excuse me ,  sir ,  do you know how to read ? 
ay ,  mine own fortune in my misery . 	I can read my own fortune in my misery . 
perhaps you have learned it without book . 	perhaps you’ve learned from life and not from books . 
but I pray ,  can you read anything you see ? 	but please tell me ,  can you read anything you see ? 
ay ,  if I know the letters and the language . 	yes ,  if I know the language and the letters . 
ye say honestly . 	I see . 
stay ,  fellow . 	well ,  that’s an  Stay ,  fellow . 
I can read . 	I can read . 
seigneur Martino and his wife and daughters; County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; The lady widow of Vitruvio; Seigneur Placentio and his lovely nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; Mine uncle Capulet ,  his wife and daughters; My fair niece Rosaline and Livia;	signor Martino and his wife and daughters ,  Count Anselme and his beautiful sisters ,  Vitruvio’s widow ,  Signor Placentio and his lovely nieces ,  Mercutio and his brother Valentine ,  My uncle Capulet and his wife and daughters ,  My fair niece Rosaline and Livia , 
seigneur Valentio and his cousin Tybalt; Lucio and the lively Helena .  ”  A fair assembly . 	signor Valentio and his cousin Tybalt ,  Lucio and the lively Helena .  ”  That’s a nice group of people . 
whither should they come ? 	where are they supposed to come ? 
up . 	up . 
whither ? 	where ? 
to supper ? 	to supper ? 
to our house . 	to our house . 
whose house ? 	whose house ? 
my master’s . 	my master’s house . 
Indeed ,  I should have asked thee that before . 	Indeed ,  I should have asked you before who he was . 
now I’ll tell you without asking . 	now I’ll tell you so you don’t have to ask . 
my master is the great rich Capulet ,  and if you be not of the house of Montagues ,  I pray come and crush a cup of wine . 	my master is the great and rich Capulet ,  and if you don’t belong to the house of Montague ,  please come and drink a cup of wine . 
rest you merry ! 	have a nice day ! 
at this same ancient feast of Capulet’s Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so loves With all the admired beauties of Verona . 	the beautiful Rosaline whom you love so much will be at Capulet’s traditional feast ,  along with every beautiful woman in Verona . 
go thither ,  and with unattainted eye Compare her face with some that I shall show ,  And I will make thee think thy swan a crow . 	go there and compare her objectively to some other girls I’ll show you . 
one fairer than my love ? 	a woman more beautiful than the one I love ? 
the all - seeing sun Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun . 	the sun itself has never seen anyone as beautiful since the world began . 
I’ll go along ,  no such sight to be shown ,  But to rejoice in splendor of mine own . 	I’ll go with you . 
nurse ,  where’s my daughter ? 	nurse ,  where’s my daughter ? 
call her forth to me . 	tell her to come to me . 
now ,  by my maidenhead at twelve year old I bade her come . 	I swear to you by my virginity at age twelve ,  I already told her to come . 
what ,  lamb ! 	come on ! 
how now ,  who calls ? 	who’s calling me ? 
your mother . 	your mother . 
madam ,  I am here . 	madam ,  I’m here . 
what is your will ? 	what do you want ? 
thou know’st my daughter’s of a pretty age . 	you know how young my daughter is . 
faith ,  I can tell her age unto an hour . 	yes ,  I know her age down to the hour . 
she’s not fourteen . 	she’s not even fourteen . 
I’ll lay fourteen of my teeth—and yet ,  to my teen be it spoken ,  I have but four—she is not fourteen . 	I’d bet fourteen of my own teeth—but ,  I’m sorry to say ,  I only have four teeth—she’s not fourteen . 
even or odd ,  of all days in the year ,  Come Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen . 	whether it’s even or odd ,  of all the days in the year ,  on the night of Lammas Eve ,  she’ll be fourteen . 
susan and she—God rest all Christian souls ! — Were of an age . 	she and Susan—God rest her and all Christian souls—were born on the same day . 
well ,  Susan is with God . 	well ,  Susan died and is with God . 
she was too good for me . 	she was too good for me . 
but ,  as I said ,  On Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen . 	but like I said ,  on the night of Lammas Eve ,  she will be fourteen . 
that shall she . 	yes ,  she will . 
marry ,  I remember it well . 	Indeed ,  I remember it well . 
tis since the earthquake now eleven years ,  And she was weaned—I never shall forget it— Of all the days of the year ,  upon that day . 	It’s been eleven years since the earthquake . 
for I had then laid wormwood to my dug ,  Sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall . 	I had put bitter wormwood on my breast as I was sitting in the sun ,  under the wall of the dovehouse . 
my lord and you were then at Mantua . — Nay ,  I do bear a brain . —But ,  as I said ,  When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple Of my dug and felt it bitter ,  pretty fool ,  To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug ! 	but like I said ,  when she tasted the bitter wormwood on my nipple ,  the pretty little babe got irritated and started to quarrel with my breast . 
shake !  ”  quoth the dovehouse . 	then the dovehouse shook with the earthquake . 
twas no need ,  I trow ,  To bid me trudge . 	there was no need to tell me to get out of there . 
yea ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ Dost thou fall upon thy face ? 	oh ,  ”  he said ,   “ Did you fall on your face ? 
and ,  pretty fool ,  it stinted and said  “ ay .  ”  Enough of this . 	you’ll  Enough of this . 
I pray thee ,  hold thy peace . 	please be quiet . 
yes ,  madam . 	yes  , madam . 
yet I cannot choose but laugh To think it should leave crying and say  “ ay .  ”  And yet ,  I warrant ,  it had upon its brow A bump as big as a young cockerel’s stone ,  A perilous knock ,  and it cried bitterly . 	but I can’t help laughing to think that the baby stopped crying and said ,   “ Yes .  ”  I swear ,  she had a bump on her forehead as big as a rooster’s testicle . 
yea ,  ”  quoth my husband ,   “ Fall’st upon thy face ? 	It was a painful bruise ,  and she was crying bitterly . 
thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age . 	yes ,  ”  said my husband ,   “ Did you fall on your face ? 
wilt thou not ,  Jule ?  ”  It stinted and said  “ ay .  ”  And stint thou too ,  I pray thee ,  Nurse ,  say I . 	you’ll fall backward when you grow up ,  won’t you ,  Jule ?  ”  And she stopped crying and said ,   “ Yes .  ”  Now you stop too ,  Nurse ,  please . 
god mark thee to his grace ! 	may God choose you to receive his grace . 
thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed . 	you were the prettiest baby I ever nursed . 
an I might live to see thee married once ,  I have my wish . 	If I live to see you get married someday ,  all my wishes will come true . 
tell me ,  daughter Juliet ,  How stands your disposition to be married ? 	tell me ,  my daughter Juliet ,  what is your attitude about getting married ? 
It is an honor that I dream not of . 	It is an honor that I do not dream of . 
well ,  think of marriage now . 	well ,  start thinking about marriage now . 
younger than you Here in Verona ,  ladies of esteem Are made already mothers . 	here in Verona there are girls younger than you—girls from noble families—who have already become mothers . 
by my count ,  I was your mother much upon these years That you are now a maid . 	by my count ,  I was already your mother at just about your age ,  while you remain a virgin . 
thus then in brief: The valiant Paris seeks you for his love . 	well then ,  I’ll say this quickly: the valiant Paris wants you as his bride . 
a man ,  young lady ! 	what a man ,  young lady . 
verona’s summer hath not such a flower . 	summertime in Verona has no flower as fine as him . 
what say you ? 	lose nothing ? 
I’ll look to like if looking liking move . 	I’ll look at him and try to like him ,  at least if what I see is likable . 
but no more deep will I endart mine eye Than your consent gives strength to make it fly . 	but I won’t let myself fall for him any more than your permission allows . 
I must hence to wait . 	everything’s out of control . 
I beseech you ,  follow straight . 	please ,  follow straight after me . 
we follow thee . —Juliet ,  the county stays . 	we’ll follow you . 
go ,  girl ,  seek happy nights to happy days . 	go ,  girl ,  look for a man who’ll give you happy nights at the end of happy days . 
what ,  shall this speech be spoke for our excuse ? 	what will we say is our excuse for being here ? 
or shall we on without apology ? 	or should we enter without apologizing ? 
the date is out of such prolixity . 	It’s out of fashion to give lengthy explanations like that . 
but let them measure us by what they will . 	let them judge us however they please . 
give me a torch . 	give me a torch . 
I am not for this ambling . 	I don’t want to dance . 
nay ,  gentle Romeo ,  we must have you dance . 	no ,  noble Romeo ,  you’ve got to dance . 
not I ,  believe me . 	not me ,  believe me . 
you have dancing shoes With nimble soles . 	you’re wearing dancing shoes with nimble soles . 
I have a soul of lead So stakes me to the ground I cannot move . 	my soul is made out of lead ,  and it’s so heavy it keeps me stuck on the ground so I can’t move . 
you are a lover . 	you’re a lover . 
borrow Cupid’s wings And soar with them above a common bound . 	take Cupid’s wings and fly higher than the average man . 
I am too sore enpiercèd with his shaft To soar with his light feathers ,  and so bound ,  I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe . 	his arrow has pierced me too deeply ,  so I can’t fly high with his cheerful feathers . 
under love’s heavy burden do I sink . 	I sink under the heavy weight of love . 
I mean ,  an we be in choler ,  we’ll draw . 	we won’t take their garbage . 
I strike quickly ,  being moved . 	I hit hard when I’m angry . 
but thou art not quickly moved to strike . 	angry enough to run away . 
to move is to stir ,  and to be valiant is to stand . 	you won’t stand and fight . 
a dog of that house shall move me to stand . 	a dog from that house will make me angry enough to take a stand . 
and to sink in it ,  should you burthen love— Too great oppression for a tender thing . 	If you sink ,  you’re dragging love down . 
Is love a tender thing ? 	Is love really tender ? 
It is too rough ,  Too rude ,  too boisterous ,  and it pricks like thorn . 	I think it’s too rough ,  too rude ,  too rowdy ,  and it pricks like a thorn . 
If love be rough with you ,  be rough with love . 	If love plays rough with you ,  play rough with  Come on ,  let’s knock and go in . 
let wantons light of heart Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels . 	let playful people with light hearts dance . 
come ,  we burn daylight ,  ho ! 	come on ,  we’re wasting precious daylight . 
nay ,  that’s not so . 	let’s go ! 
we waste our lights in vain ,  like lights by day . 	no we’re not—it’s night . 
and we mean well in going to this mask ,  But ’tis no wit to go . 	we mean well by going to this masquerade ball ,  but it’s not smart of us to go . 
why ,  may one ask ? 	why ,  may I ask ? 
I dreamt a dream tonight . 	I had a dream last night . 
and so did I . 	so did I . 
well ,  what was yours ? 	well ,  what was your dream ? 
that dreamers often lie . 	my dream told me that dreamers often lie . 
In bed asleep while they do dream things true . 	they lie in bed while they dream about the truth . 
oh ,  then ,  I see Queen Mab hath been with you . 	oh ,  then I see you’ve been with  Who’s Queen Mab ? 
sometime she gallops o'er a courtier’s nose ,  And then dreams he of smelling out a suit . 	sometimes she rides over a courtier’s lips ,  and he dreams of making money off of someone . 
and sometime comes she with a tithe - pig’s tail Tickling a parson’s nose as he lies asleep ,  Then he dreams of another benefice . 	sometimes she tickles a priest’s nose with a  Enough ,  enough ! 
this is she—    Peace ,  peace ,  Mercutio ,  peace ! 	mercutio ,  be quiet . 
this wind you talk of ,  blows us from ourselves . 	the wind you’re talking about is blowing us off our course . 
supper is done ,  and we shall come too late . 	dinner is over ,  and we’re going to get there too late . 
on ,  lusty gentlemen . 	onward ,  lover boys ! 
strike ,  drum . 	beat the drum . 
where’s Potpan ,  that he helps not to take away ? 	where’s Potpan ? 
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men’s hands ,  and they unwashed too ,  ’tis a foul thing . 	when only one or two men have all the good manners ,  and even they are dirty ,  things are bad . 
away with the joint - stools ,  remove the court - cupboard ,  look to the plate . 	take away the stools ,  the sideboards ,  and the plates . 
good thou ,  save me a piece of marchpane ,  and ,  as thou loves me ,  let the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell . —Antony and Potpan ! 	you ,  good friend ,  save me a piece of marzipan ,  and if you love me ,  have the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell . 
ay ,  boy ,  ready . 	yes ,  boy ,  I’m ready . 
you are looked for and called for ,  asked for and sought for ,  in the great chamber . 	they’re looking for you in the great chamber . 
we cannot be here and there too . 	we can’t be in two places at once ,  both here and there ! 
cheerly ,  boys . 	cheers ,  boys . 
be brisk 0awhile ,  and the longer liver take all . 	be quick for a while and let the one who lives the longest take everything . 
welcome ,  gentlemen ! 	welcome ,  gentlemen . 
she that makes dainty ,  She ,  I’ll swear ,  hath corns . 	whichever of you acts shy ,  I’ll swear she has corns . 
am I come near ye now ? — Welcome ,  gentlemen ! 	welcome ,  gentlemen . 
by'r Lady ,  thirty years . 	I swear ,  it must be thirty years . 
tis more ,  ’tis more . 	It’s been longer ,  it’s been longer . 
his son is elder ,  sir . 	lucentio’s son is older than that ,  sir . 
his son is thirty . 	he’s thirty years old . 
will you tell me that ? 	are you really going to tell me that ? 
his son was but a ward two years ago . 	his son was a minor only two years ago . 
I know not ,  sir . 	I don’t know ,  sir . 
oh ,  she doth teach the torches to burn bright ! 	oh ,  she shows the torches how to burn bright ! 
for I ne'er saw true beauty till this night . 	my eyes were liars ,  then ,  because I never saw true beauty before tonight . 
this ,  by his voice ,  should be a Montague . —   What ,  dares the slave Come hither ,  covered with an antic face ,  To fleer and scorn at our solemnity ? 	I can tell by his voice that this man is a Montague . 
wherefore storm you so ? 	why are you acting so angry ? 
uncle ,  this is a Montague ,  our foe ,  A villain that is hither come in spite To scorn at our solemnity this night . 	uncle ,  this man is a Montague—our enemy . 
young Romeo is it ? 	Is it young Romeo ? 
tis he ,  that villain Romeo . 	that’s him ,  that villain Romeo . 
content thee ,  gentle coz . 	calm down ,  gentle cousin . 
let him alone . 	leave him alone . 
he bears him like a portly gentleman ,  And ,  to say truth ,  Verona brags of him To be a virtuous and well - governed youth . 	he carries himself like a dignified gentleman ,  and ,  to tell you the truth ,  he has a reputation throughout Verona as a virtuous and well - behaved young man . 
I would not for the wealth of all the town Here in my house do him disparagement . 	I wouldn’t insult him in my own house for all the wealth in this town . 
therefore be patient . 	so calm down . 
take no note of him . 	just ignore him . 
you’ll not endure him ! 	I won’t tolerate him . 
why ,  uncle ,  ’tis a shame . 	you  But ,  uncle ,  we’re being disrespected . 
go to ,  go to . 	go on ,  go on . 
you are a saucy boy . 	you’re an insolent little boy . 
Is ’t so ,  indeed ? 	Is that how it is ,  really ? 
this trick may chance to scathe you ,  I know what . 	I know what I’ll do . 
you must contrary me . 	you have to contradict me ,  do you ? 
I’ll make you quiet . —What ,  cheerly ,  my hearts ! 	I’ll teach you a lesson . 
have not saints lips ,  and holy palmers too ? 	don’t saints and pilgrims have lips too ? 
ay ,  pilgrim ,  lips that they must use in prayer . 	yes ,  pilgrim—they have lips that they’re supposed to pray with . 
o ,  then ,  dear saint ,  let lips do what hands do . 	well then ,  saint ,  let lips do what hands do . 
they pray; grant thou ,  lest faith turn to despair . 	please grant my prayer so my faith doesn’t turn to despair . 
saints do not move ,  though grant for prayers' sake . 	saints don’t move ,  even when they grant prayers . 
then move not ,  while my prayer’s effect I take . 	then don’t move while I act out my prayer . 
thus from my lips ,  by thine ,  my sin is purged . 	now my sin has been taken from my lips by yours . 
then have my lips the sin that they have took . 	then do my lips now have the sin they took from yours ? 
sin from thy lips ? 	sin from my lips ? 
give me my sin again . 	give me my sin back . 
you kiss by th' book . 	you kiss like you’ve studied how . 
madam ,  your mother craves a word with you . 	madam ,  your mother wants to talk to you . 
what is her mother ? 	who is her mother ? 
I nursed her daughter that you talked withal . 	I nursed her daughter ,  whom you were just talking to . 
I tell you ,  he that can lay hold of her Shall have the chinks . 	let me tell you ,  the man who marries her will become very wealthy . 
nay ,  gentlemen ,  prepare not to be gone . 	no gentlemen ,  don’t get ready to go now . 
we have a trifling foolish banquet towards . — Is it e'en so ? 	we have a little dessert coming up . 
I’ll to my rest . 	you’re right . 
the quarrel is between our masters and us their men . 	the fight is between our masters ,  and we men who work for them . 
tis all one . 	It’s all the same . 
I will show myself a tyrant . 	I’ll be a harsh master to them . 
the heads of the maids ? 	cut off their heads ? 
ay ,  the heads of the maids ,  or their maidenheads . 	you mean their  Cut off their heads ,  take their maidenheads—whatever . 
take it in what sense thou wilt . 	take my remark in whichever sense you like . 
they must take it in sense that feel it . 	the women you rape are the ones who’ll have to  “ sense ”  it . 
me they shall feel while I am able to stand ,  and ’tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh . 	everybody knows I’m a nice piece of flesh . 
tis well thou art not fish . 	It’s a good thing you’re not a piece of fish . 
draw thy tool ! 	you’re    Pull out your tool now . 
my naked weapon is out . 	I have my naked sword out . 
come hither ,  Nurse . 	come over here ,  nurse . 
what is yond gentleman ? 	who is that gentleman ? 
the son and heir of old Tiberio . 	he is the son and heir of old Tiberio . 
what’s he that now is going out of door ? 	who’s the one who’s going out the door right now ? 
marry ,  that ,  I think ,  be young Petruchio . 	well ,  that one ,  I think ,  is young Petruchio . 
I know not . 	I don’t know his name . 
go ask his name . —If he be married . 	go ask . 
what’s this ? 	what’s this ? 
what’s this ? 	what’s this ? 
the strangers all are gone . 	the strangers are all gone . 
now Romeo is beloved and loves again ,  Alike bewitchèd by the charm of looks ,  But to his foe supposed he must complain ,  And she steal love’s sweet bait from fearful hooks . 	but he has to make his speeches of love to a woman who’s supposed to be his enemy . 
and she as much in love ,  her means much less To meet her new beloved anywhere . 	and Juliet’s just as much in love as he ,  but she has even less opportunity to meet her lover . 
but passion lends them power ,  time means ,  to meet ,  Tempering extremities with extreme sweet . 	but love gives them power ,  and time gives them the chance to meet ,  sweetening the extreme danger with intense pleasure . 
can I go forward when my heart is here ? 	can I go away while my heart stays here ? 
he is wise ,  And ,  on my life ,  hath stol'n him home to bed . 	I bet he slipped away and went home to bed . 
he ran this way and leapt this orchard wall . 	he ran this way and jumped over this orchard wall . 
call ,  good Mercutio . 	call to him ,  Mercutio . 
nay ,  I’ll conjure too ! 	I’ll conjure him as if I were summoning a spirit . 
romeo ! 	romeo ! 
appear thou in the likeness of a sigh ! 	show yourself in the form of a sigh . 
speak but one rhyme ,  and I am satisfied . 	speak one rhyme ,  and I’ll be satisfied . 
cry but  “ Ay me !  ”  Pronounce but  “ love ”  and  “ dove .  ”  Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word ,  One nickname for her purblind son and heir ,  Young Abraham Cupid ,  he that shot so true When King Cophetua loved the beggar maid . — He heareth not ,  he stirreth not ,  he moveth not . 	just cry out ,   “ Ah me !  ”  Just say  “ love ”  and  “ dove .  ”  Say just one lovely word to my good friend
an if he hear thee ,  thou wilt anger him . 	If he hears you ,  you’ll make him angry . 
this cannot anger him . 	what I’m saying can’t anger him . 
my invocation Is fair and honest . 	the things I’m saying are fair and honest . 
blind is his love and best befits the dark . 	his love is blind ,  so it belongs in the dark . 
If love be blind ,  love cannot hit the mark . 	If love is blind ,  it can’t hit the target . 
now will he sit under a medlar tree And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit As maids call medlars when they laugh alone . — O Romeo ,  that she were ! 	now he’ll sit under a  Let’s go . 
go ,  then ,  for ’tis in vain To seek him here that means not to be found . 	there’s no point in looking for him if he doesn’t want to be found . 
It is the east ,  and Juliet is the sun . 	It is the east ,  and Juliet is the sun . 
her vestal livery is but sick and green ,  And none but fools do wear it . 	virginity makes her look sick and green . 
cast it off ! 	let it go . 
It is my lady . 	oh ,  there’s my lady ! 
oh ,  it is my love . 	oh ,  it is my love . 
oh ,  that she knew she were ! 	oh ,  I wish she knew how much I love her . 
she speaks ,  yet she says nothing . 	she’s talking ,  but she’s not saying anything . 
what of that ? 	so what ? 
her eye discourses . 	her eyes are saying something . 
tis not to me she speaks . 	she’s not talking to me . 
two of the fairest stars in all the heaven ,  Having some business ,  do entreat her eyes To twinkle in their spheres till they return . 	two of the brightest stars in the whole sky had to go away on business ,  and they’re asking her eyes to twinkle in their places until they return . 
her eye in heaven Would through the airy region stream so bright That birds would sing and think it were not night . 	If her eyes were in the night sky ,  they would shine so brightly through space that birds would start singing ,  thinking her light was the light of day . 
see how she leans her cheek upon her hand . 	look how she leans her hand on her cheek . 
oh ,  that I were a glove upon that hand That I might touch that cheek ! 	oh ,  I wish I was the glove on that hand so that I could touch that cheek . 
o Romeo ,  Romeo ! 	oh ,  my ! 
wherefore art thou Romeo ? 	who are you ? 
tis but thy name that is my enemy . 	I hate my name ,  dear saint ,  because my name is your enemy . 
henceforth I never will be Romeo . 	aren’t you Romeo ? 
what man art thou that ,  thus bescreened in night ,  So stumblest on my counsel ? 	and aren’t you a Montague ? 
by a name I know not how to tell thee who I am . 	tell me ,  how did you get in here ? 
art thou not Romeo ,  and a Montague ? 	and why did you come ? 
the orchard walls are high and hard to climb ,  And the place death ,  considering who thou art ,  If any of my kinsmen find thee here . 	If any of my relatives find you here they’ll kill you because of who you are . 
therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me . 	therefore your relatives are no obstacle . 
If they do see thee they will murder thee . 	If they see you ,  they’ll murder you . 
look thou but sweet ,  And I am proof against their enmity . 	just look at me kindly ,  and I’m invincible against their hatred . 
I would not for the world they saw thee here . 	I’d give anything to keep them from seeing you here . 
my life were better ended by their hate Than death proroguèd ,  wanting of thy love . 	I’d rather they killed me than have to live without your love . 
thou know’st the mask of night is on my face ,  Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek For that which thou hast heard me speak tonight . 	otherwise ,  you’d see me blushing about the things you’ve heard me say tonight . 
dost thou love me ? 	do you love me ? 
I know thou wilt say  “ ay ,  ”  And I will take thy word . 	I know you’ll say  “ yes ,  ”  and I’ll believe you . 
what shall I swear by ? 	what should I swear by ? 
do not swear at all . 	don’t swear at all . 
or ,  if thou wilt ,  swear by thy gracious self ,  Which is the god of my idolatry ,  And I’ll believe thee . 	but if you have to swear ,  swear by your wonderful self ,  which is the god I worship like an idol ,  and then I’ll believe you . 
If my heart’s dear love— Well ,  do not swear . 	If my heart’s dear love— Well ,  don’t swear . 
although I joy in thee ,  I have no joy of this contract tonight . 	although you bring me joy ,  I can’t take joy in this exchange of promises tonight . 
this bud of love ,  by summer’s ripening breath ,  May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet . 	our love ,  which right now is like a flower bud in the summer air ,  may turn out to be a beautiful flower by the next time we meet . 
as sweet repose and rest Come to thy heart as that within my breast . 	I hope you enjoy the same sweet peace and rest I feel in my heart . 
o ,  wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied ? 	oh ,  are you going to leave me so unsatisfied ? 
what satisfaction canst thou have tonight ? 	what satisfaction could you possibly have tonight ? 
th' exchange of thy love’s faithful vow for mine . 	I pledged my love to you before you asked me to . 
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it ,  And yet I would it were to give again . 	yet I wish I could take that promise back ,  so I had it to give again . 
wouldst thou withdraw it ? 	you would take it back ? 
for what purpose ,  love ? 	why would you do that ,  my love ? 
but to be frank ,  and give it thee again . 	only to be generous and give it to you once more . 
and yet I wish but for the thing I have . 	but I’m wishing for something I already have . 
my bounty is as boundless as the sea ,  My love as deep . 	my generosity to you is as limitless as the sea ,  and my love is as deep . 
I hear some noise within . 	I hear a noise inside . 
dear love ,  adieu . — Anon ,  good Nurse ! —Sweet Montague ,  be true . 	sweet Montague ,  be true . 
stay but a little . 	stay here for a moment . 
I will come again . 	I’ll come back . 
o blessèd ,  blessèd night ! 	oh ,  blessed ,  blessed night ! 
I am afeard ,  Being in night ,  all this is but a dream ,  Too flattering sweet to be substantial . 	because it’s dark out ,  I’m afraid all this is just a dream ,  too sweet to be real . 
three words ,  dear Romeo ,  and good night indeed . 	three words ,  dear Romeo ,  and then it’s good night for real . 
fear me not . 	don’t worry about me . 
let us take the law of our sides . 	I  Let’s not break the law by starting a fight . 
let them begin . 	let them start something . 
I will frown as I pass by ,  and let them take it as they list . 	I’ll frown at them as they pass by ,  and they can react however they want . 
nay ,  as they dare . 	you mean however they dare . 
I will bite my thumb at them ,  which is a disgrace to them ,  if they bear it . 	I’ll bite my thumb at them . 
do you bite your thumb at us ,  sir ? 	hey ,  are you biting your thumb at us ? 
I do bite my thumb ,  sir . 	I’m biting my thumb . 
do you bite your thumb at us ,  sir ? 	are you biting your thumb at us ? 
do you quarrel ,  sir ? 	are you trying to start a fight ? 
quarrel ,  sir ? 	start a fight ? 
no ,  sir . 	no ,  sir . 
tomorrow will I send . 	tomorrow I’ll send the messenger . 
so thrive my soul— A thousand times good night ! 	my soul depends on it— A thousand times good night . 
a thousand times the worse to want thy light . 	leaving you is a thousand times worse than being near you . 
bondage is hoarse ,  and may not speak aloud ,  Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies ,  And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine ,  With repetition of  “ My Romeo !  ”  It is my soul that calls upon my name . 	oh ,  I wish I could make a  My soul is calling out my name . 
how silver - sweet sound lovers' tongues by night ,  Like softest music to attending ears ! 	the sound of lovers calling each others names through the night is silver - sweet . 
romeo ! 	romeo ! 
my nyas ? 	my baby hawk ? 
what o'clock tomorrow Shall I send to thee ? 	what time tomorrow should I send a messenger to you ? 
by the hour of nine . 	by nine o'clock . 
I will not fail . 	I won’t fail . 
tis twenty year till then . 	from now until then seems like twenty years . 
I have forgot why I did call thee back . 	I have forgotten why I called you back . 
let me stand here till thou remember it . 	let me stand here until you remember your reason . 
and I’ll still stay ,  to have thee still forget ,  Forgetting any other home but this . 	I’ll forget that I have any home besides this spot right here . 
tis almost morning . 	It’s almost morning . 
and yet no further than a wanton’s bird ,  That lets it hop a little from his hand Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves ,  And with a silken thread plucks it back again ,  So loving - jealous of his liberty . 	he lets the bird hop a little from his hand and then yanks him back by a string . 
I would I were thy bird . 	I wish I was your bird . 
sweet ,  so would I . 	my sweet ,  so do I . 
yet I should kill thee with much cherishing . 	but I would kill you by petting you too much . 
good night ,  good night ! 	good night ,  good night . 
parting is such sweet sorrow That I shall say good night till it be morrow . 	parting is such sweet sorrow that I’ll say good night until tonight becomes tomorrow . 
sleep dwell upon thine eyes ,  peace in thy breast . 	I hope you sleep peacefully . 
would I were sleep and peace ,  so sweet to rest . 	I wish I were Sleep and Peace ,  so I could spend the night with you . 
hence will I to my ghostly friar’s close cell ,  His help to crave and my dear hap to tell . 	now I’ll go see my priest ,  to ask for his help and tell him about my good luck . 
the gray - eyed morn smiles on the frowning night ,  Checkering the eastern clouds with streaks of light ,  And fleckled darkness like a drunkard reels From forth day’s path and Titan’s fiery wheels . 	darkness is stumbling out of the sun’s path like a drunk man . 
now ,  ere the sun advance his burning eye ,  The day to cheer and night’s dank dew to dry ,  I must upfill this osier cage of ours With baleful weeds and precious - juicèd flowers . 	now ,  before the sun comes up and burns away the dew ,  I have to fill this basket of mine with poisonous weeds and medicinal flowers . 
the earth ,  that’s nature’s mother ,  is her tomb . 	the Earth is nature’s mother and also nature’s tomb . 
and from her womb children of divers kind We sucking on her natural bosom find ,  Many for many virtues excellent ,  None but for some and yet all different . 	from the Earth’s womb ,  many different sorts of plants and animals come forth ,  and the Earth provides her children with many excellent forms of nourishment . 
oh ,  mickle is the powerful grace that lies In herbs ,  plants ,  stones ,  and their true qualities . 	herbs ,  plants ,  and stones possess great power . 
for naught so vile that on the earth doth live But to the earth some special good doth give . 	there is nothing on Earth that is so evil that it does not provide the earth with some special quality . 
virtue itself turns vice ,  being misapplied ,  And vice sometime by action dignified . 	virtue turns to vice if it’s misused . 
within the infant rind of this small flower Poison hath residence and medicine power . 	Inside the little rind of this weak flower ,  there is both poison and powerful medicine . 
two such opposèd kings encamp them still ,  In man as well as herbs—grace and rude will . 	there are two opposite elements in everything ,  in men as well as in herbs—good and evil . 
and where the worser is predominant ,  Full soon the canker death eats up that plant . 	when evil is dominant ,  death soon kills the body like cancer . 
good morrow ,  Father . 	good morning ,  father . 
benedicite . 	god bless you . 
what early tongue so sweet saluteth me ? 	who greets me so early in the morning ? 
young son ,  it argues a distempered head So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed . 	young man ,  something’s wrong if you’re getting out of bed this early . 
care keeps his watch in every old man’s eye ,  And where care lodges ,  sleep will never lie . 	every old man has worries ,  and worried men never get any sleep ,  but young men shouldn’t have a care in the world . 
but where unbruisèd youth with unstuffed brain Doth couch his limbs ,  there golden sleep doth reign . 	they should get to bed early and get plenty of sleep . 
therefore thy earliness doth me assure Thou art uproused by some distemperature . 	therefore ,  the fact that you’re awake this early tells me you’ve been upset with some anxiety . 
or if not so ,  then here I hit it right: Our Romeo hath not been in bed tonight . 	If that’s not the case ,  then this must be the answer: You ,  Romeo ,  have not been to bed tonight . 
that last is true . 	your last guess is right . 
the sweeter rest was mine . 	I enjoyed a sweeter rest than sleep . 
with Rosaline ,  my ghostly Father ? 	with Rosaline ,  father ? 
that’s my good son . 	that’s good ,  my boy . 
but where hast thou been ,  then ? 	but where have you been ? 
I’ll tell thee ere thou ask it me again . 	I’ll tell you before you have to ask me again . 
both our remedies Within thy help and holy physic lies . 	you have the sacred power to cure both of us . 
I bear no hatred ,  blessèd man ,  for ,  lo ,  My intercession likewise steads my foe . 	I carry no hatred ,  holy man ,  because my request will benefit my enemy . 
here comes your father . 	here comes your father . 
never make denial . 	don’t even think about refusing . 
I must and will have Katherine to my wife . 	I must and will have Katherine for my wife . 
now ,  Signior Petruchio ,  how speed you with my daughter ? 	now ,  Signior Petruchio ,  how are you getting on with my daughter ? 
how but well ,  sir ? 	beautifully ,  sir ,  beautifully ! 
why ,  how now ,  daughter Katherine ? 	now ,  daughter Katherine ? 
In your dumps ? 	are you down in the dumps ? 
call you me daughter ? 	you have the nerve to call me daughter ? 
father ,  ’tis thus: yourself and all the world That talked of her have talked amiss of her . 	sir ,  this is the truth: you and the rest—all the people who have ever talked about her—have all been wrong . 
I’ll see thee hanged on Sunday first . 	she has the patience of a  I’ll see you hanged on Sunday first ! 
hark ,  Petruchio: she says she’ll see thee hanged first . 	listen to that Petruchio: she says she’ll see you hanged first . 
Is this your speeding ? 	Is this your idea of success ? 
nay ,  then ,  good night our part . 	so much for our plan . 
be patient ,  gentlemen . 	relax ,  gentlemen . 
I choose her for myself . 	I’ve made my choice . 
If she and I be pleased ,  what’s that to you ? 	If she and I are happy ,  what’s it to you ? 
tis bargained ’twixt us twain ,  being alone ,  That she shall still be curst in company . 	when we were alone ,  we agreed that in public she would go on being unpleasant . 
I tell you ,  ’tis incredible to believe How much she loves me . 	I tell you ,  though ,  it’s incredible how much she loves me . 
o ,  the kindest Kate ! 	darling Kate ! 
o ,  you are novices ! 	you men are rank beginners ! 
tis a world to see ,  How tame ,  when men and women are alone ,  A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew . — Give me thy hand ,  Kate . 	give me your hand ,  Kate . 
I will unto Venice To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding day . 	I’m off to Venice to buy outfits for the wedding . 
god send you joy ,  Petruchio . 	god give you joy ,  Petruchio . 
tis a match . 	call it a match ! 
amen ,  say we . 	amen to that ! 
we will be witnesses . 	we’ll be your witnesses . 
father ,  and wife ,  and gentlemen ,  adieu . 	father ,  wife ,  friends—farewell ! 
I will to Venice . 	I’m off to Venice . 
sunday comes apace . 	sunday is just around the corner . 
we will be married o' Sunday . 	we’re to be married on Sunday . 
was ever match clapped up so suddenly ? 	was there ever a match put together so quickly ? 
twill bring you gain or perish on the seas . 	I’ve made a risky investment . 
the gain I seek is quiet in the match . 	the only profit I seek is a peaceful match . 
no doubt but he hath got a quiet catch . 	there’s no doubt that Petruchio’s got quite a catch . 
but now ,  Baptista ,  to your younger daughter . 	now ,  Baptista ,  let’s turn to your younger daughter . 
now is the day we long have lookèd for . 	we’ve been waiting a long time for this day . 
I am your neighbor ,  and was suitor first . 	I’m your neighbor and came courting first . 
youngling ,  thou canst not love so dear as I .    Graybeard ,  thy love doth freeze . 	callow youth ,  you don’t yet know how to love ! 
but thine doth fry . 	and you’re all sizzle . 
skipper ,  stand back . 	stand back ,  boy . 
tis age that nourisheth . 	age is the thing that nourishes . 
content you ,  gentlemen . 	enough ,  gentlemen . 
I will compound this strife . 	I will settle this matter . 
first ,  as you know ,  my house within the city Is richly furnishèd with plate and gold ,  Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands; My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry ,  In ivory coffers I have stuffed my crowns ,  In cypress chests my arras counterpoints ,  Costly apparel ,  tents ,  and canopies ,  Fine linen ,  Turkey cushions bossed with pearl ,  Valance of Venice gold in needlework ,  Pewter and brass ,  and all things that belong To house or housekeeping . 	first of all ,  my house in the city ,  as you know ,  is filled with expensive furniture and household articles ,  china and gold ,  basins and pitchers for her to wash her dainty hands in . 
then ,  at my farm I have a hundred milch - kine to the pail ,  Six score fat oxen standing in my stalls ,  And all things answerable to this portion . 	then ,  at my farm I have a hundred milk cows ,  a hundred and twenty fat oxen in my stables ,  and all the equipment necessary to maintain them . 
two thousand ducats by the year of land ! 	two thousand ducats a year from his land ! 
nay ,  I have offered all ,  I have no more ,  And she can have no more than all I have . 	I can’t offer her more than all I have . 
I must confess your offer is the best ,  And ,  let your father make her the assurance ,  She is your own; else ,  you must pardon me . 	I must admit your offer is the best . 
If you should die before him ,  where’s her dower ? 	otherwise—forgive me ,  but if you should die before him ,  what becomes of her dowry ? 
and may not young men die as well as old ? 	oh ,  and young men never die ? 
well ,  gentlemen ,  I am thus resolved: On Sunday next ,  you know My daughter Katherina is to be married . 	as you know ,  next Sunday my daughter Katherina is to be married . 
I think ’twas Soto that your Honor means . 	I believe your Honor is thinking of a character called Soto . 
tis very true . 	yes ,  that was it . 
thou didst it excellent . 	you gave an excellent performance . 
there is a lord will hear you play tonight; But I am doubtful of your modesties ,  Lest over - eyeing of his odd behavior— For yet his Honor never heard a play— You break into some merry passion And so offend him . 	there is a particular lord who will watch you perform tonight . 
go ,  sirrah ,  take them to the buttery And give them friendly welcome every one . 	go ,  lad ,  and take them to the pantry . 
adieu ,  good neighbor . 	farewell ,  good neighbor . 
sirrah young gamester ,  your father were a fool To give thee all and in his waning age Set foot under thy table . 	your father would be a fool to give you all his wealth and spend his declining years as a guest in your house . 
tut ,  a toy ! 	It’s absurd . 
an old Italian fox is not so kind ,  my boy . 	an old Italian fox is never that generous ,  my boy . 
a vengeance on your crafty withered hide ! 	sneaky ,  dried - up old coot ! 
fathers commonly Do get their children . 	usually fathers produce children ,  not the other way around . 
but in this case of wooing ,  A child shall get a sire ,  if I fail not of my cunning . 	but in this case of wooing ,  a child shall father his own father—if my wits don’t fail me . 
his lecture will be done ere you have tuned . 	I’ll have my lessons in the order and manner
where left we last ? 	where did we leave off ? 
here ,  madam:     Conster them . 	here ,  madam:     Translate . 
now let me see if I can conster it . 	now let me see if I can translate it . 
I must believe my master; else ,  I promise you ,  I should be arguing still upon that doubt . 	there’s no need to be ,  really ,  for—  You’re my teacher ,  so I must believe you . 
but let it rest . —Now ,  Litio ,  to you . 	but let it go . —Now ,  Litio ,  it’s your turn . 
good master ,  take it not unkindly ,  pray ,  That I have been thus pleasant with you both . 	I hope ,  sir ,  that you’re not angry that I’ve been equally attentive to you both ! 
call you this  “ gamut ”  ? 	you call this a scale ? 
tut ,  I like it not . 	I don’t like it . 
old fashions please me best . 	I like doing things the old - fashioned way . 
mistress ,  your father prays you leave your books And help to dress your sister’s chamber up . 	mistress ,  your father requests that you leave your books and come help decorate your sister’s room . 
you know tomorrow is the wedding day . 	you know tomorrow is her wedding day . 
farewell ,  sweet masters both . 	farewell to both of you ,  dear teachers . 
I must be gone . 	I have to go . 
but I have cause to pry into this pedant . 	but there’s reason for me to look more closely at this schoolmaster . 
methinks he looks as though he were in love . 	he acts like a man in love . 
no shame but mine . 	the humiliation is all mine . 
now must the world point at poor Katherine And say ,   “ Lo ,  there is mad Petruchio’s wife ,  If it would please him come and marry her !  ”    Upon my life ,  Petruchio means but well ,  Whatever fortune stays him from his word: Though he be blunt ,  I know him passing wise; Though he be merry ,  yet withal he’s honest . 	so now everyone will point at me and say ,   “ Look ,  there goes the wife of that comedian Petruchio—if he could be bothered to marry the pathetic thing !  ” 
would Katherine had never seen him ,  though ! 	maybe ,  but I wish I’d never laid eyes on him . 
go ,  girl . 	go ,  daughter . 
I cannot blame thee now to weep ,  For such an injury would vex a very saint ,  Much more a shrew of thy impatient humor . 	I cannot blame you now for weeping . 
master ,  master ! 	master ,  master ! 
news ,  old news ,  and such news as you never heard of ! 	I have news—old news such as you never heard before ! 
Is it new and old too ? 	you say you have news that’s old ? 
how may that be ? 	how can that be ? 
why ,  is it not news to hear of Petruchio’s coming ? 	well ,  is it not news that Petruchio’s coming ? 
Is he come ? 	Is he here ? 
why ,  no ,  sir . 	why ,  no ,  sir . 
what then ? 	what then ? 
he is coming . 	he is coming . 
when will he be here ? 	when will he be here ? 
when he stands where I am and sees you there . 	when he stands where I am and sees you there . 
who comes with him ? 	who comes with him ? 
a monster ,  a very monster in apparel ,  and not like a Christian footboy or a gentleman’s lackey . 	he’s dressed like a freak ,  a total freak ,  and not at all like a proper footman or a gentleman’s valet . 
I am glad he’s come ,  howsoe'er he comes . 	I am glad he’s coming ,  however he’s dressed . 
why ,  sir ,  he comes not . 	why ,  sir ,  he’s not coming . 
didst thou not say he comes ? 	didn’t you just say he was ? 
who ? 	who ? 
that Petruchio came ? 	petruchio ? 
ay ,  that Petruchio came . 	yes ,  Petruchio . 
no ,  sir ,  I say his horse comes ,  with him on his back . 	no ,  I said his horse is coming ,  with him on its back . 
why ,  that’s all one . 	well ,  that’s the same thing . 
nay ,  by Saint Jamy ,  I hold you a penny ,  A horse and a man Is more than one And yet not many . 	no ,  by Saint Jamy ,  I’ll bet you a penny ! 
you are welcome ,  sir . 	you are welcome ,  sir . 
see this dispatched with all the haste thou canst: Anon I’ll give thee more instructions . 	I’ll give you more instructions later . 
I know the boy will well usurp the grace ,  Voice ,  gait ,  and action of a gentlewoman . 	I know the boy will be a convincing gentlewoman ,  taking up her exact walk and talk and gentle gestures . 
I long to hear him call the drunkard  “ husband ,  ”  And how my men will stay themselves from laughter When they do homage to this simple peasant . 	I can’t wait to hear him call the drunkard  “ husband ,  ”  and to watch my men smother their laughter as they pay their respects to this simple peasant . 
I’ll in to counsel them . 	I’ll go and coach them . 
where is my love ? 	where is my lovely bride ? 
why ,  sir ,  you know this is your wedding day . 	why ,  sir ,  you know this is your wedding day . 
tedious it were to tell and harsh to hear . 	It’s a long story—and tough to listen to . 
but where is Kate ? 	but where is Kate ? 
I stay too long from her . 	we’re wasting time here . 
see not your bride in these unreverent robes . 	don’t greet your bride in these disgraceful clothes . 
go to my chamber ,  put on clothes of mine . 	go to my room and put on something of mine . 
not I ,  believe me . 	not me . 
thus I’ll visit her . 	I’ll see her like this . 
but thus ,  I trust ,  you will not marry her . 	but surely you’re not planning to
good sooth ,  even thus . 	yes ,  just like this . 
could I repair what she will wear in me As I can change these poor accoutrements ,  'Twere well for Kate and better for myself . 	though I expect she’ll wear me out more quickly than I’ll wear out what I’m wearing—which will be good for her and even better for me ! 
but what a fool am I to chat with you ,  When I should bid good morrow to my bride And seal the title with a lovely kiss ! 	but what a fool I am to stand here chatting when I should bid good morning to my bride and seal the bargain with a loving kiss . 
he hath some meaning in his mad attire . 	he must be wearing this crazy outfit for some reason . 
we will persuade him ,  be it possible ,  To put on better ere he go to church . 	I’ll try to persuade him to put on something more appropriate before going to the church ,  if it’s at all possible . 
I’ll after him ,  and see the event of this . 	I’ll go too and make sure that happens . 
so shall you quietly enjoy your hope And marry sweet Bianca with consent . 	and
we’ll overreach the graybeard ,  Gremio ,  The narrow - prying father ,  Minola ,  The quaint musician ,  amorous Litio ,  All for my master’s sake ,  Lucentio . 	we’ll outwit them all—that old geezer ,  Gremio; the suspicious father ,  Minola; the prim musician lover ,  Litio—all for the sake of my master ,  Lucentio . 
signior Gremio ,  came you from the church ? 	signior Gremio ,  are you coming from the church ? 
as willingly as e'er I came from school . 	as eagerly as I ever came from school . 
a bridegroom ,  say you ? 	bridegroom ? 
why ,  he’s a devil ,  a devil ,  a very fiend . 	no ,  he’s a devil—a devil ,  I tell you ! 
tut ,  she’s a lamb ,  a dove ,  a fool to him ! 	why ,  she’s a lamb ,  a dove ,  a child compared to him ! 
now take them up ,  ”  quoth he ,   “ if any list .  ”    Trembled and shook ,  for why he stamped and swore As if the vicar meant to cozen him . 	she trembled and shook because he stamped and swore and carried on as though the vicar were trying to put something over on him . 
but after many ceremonies done ,  He calls for wine . 	finally ,  the ceremony done ,  he called for wine . 
this done ,  he took the bride about the neck And kissed her lips with such a clamorous smack That at the parting all the church did echo . 	next he slung his arm around the bride’s neck and kissed her with such a smack that when they parted the sound of their lips made the whole church echo . 
such a mad marriage never was before . 	that was the limit for me . 
hark ,  hark ! 	It’s disgraceful ! 
I hear the minstrels play . 	there go the minstrels . 
Is ’t possible you will away tonight ? 	you’re not thinking of leaving tonight ,  surely ? 
make it no wonder . 	not tonight—today . 
If you knew my business ,  You would entreat me rather go than stay . 	If you knew the reason ,  you’d understand and would urge me to go rather than stay . 
and ,  honest company ,  I thank you all ,  That have beheld me give away myself To this most patient ,  sweet and virtuous wife . 	good friends ,  I thank you all for coming to see me wed this patient ,  sweet ,  virtuous wife . 
let me entreat you . 	goodbye to you all . 
It cannot be . 	can’t do it . 
let me entreat you . 	as a favor to  Nope . 
I am content . 	as a favor to  I’m delighted . 
are you content to stay ? 	delighted to stay ? 
I am content you shall entreat me stay ,  But yet not stay ,  entreat me how you can . 	delighted to hear you ask so nicely ,  but I won’t stay in any case . 
now ,  if you love me ,  stay . 	look ,  if you love me ,  stay . 
grumio ,  my horse . 	grumio ,  get me my horse . 
ay ,  sir ,  they be ready . 	yes ,  sir ,  they’re ready . 
the oats have eaten the horses . 	they’ve eaten themselves sick . 
the door is open ,  sir . 	the door is open ,  sir . 
there lies your way . 	go on ,  wear your boots out ! 
for me ,  I’ll not be gone till I please myself . 	as for me ,  I’ll leave when I like . 
o Kate ,  content thee . 	calm down ,  Kate . 
prithee ,  be not angry . 	please don’t be angry . 
I will be angry . 	I will be angry . 
what hast thou to do ? — Father ,  be quiet . 	what business is it of yours ? —Father ,  be quiet . 
he shall stay my leisure . 	he’ll stay as long as I say . 
ay ,  marry ,  sir ,  now it begins to work . 	okay ,  now it starts ! 
gentlemen ,  forward to the bridal dinner . 	gentlemen ,  on to the bridal dinner . 
I see a woman may be made a fool If she had not a spirit to resist . 	I see a woman may be made a fool of if she doesn’t have nerve enough to stand up for herself . 
I’ll buckler thee against a million . 	they
nay ,  let them go ,  a couple of quiet ones . 	no ,  let them go . 
went they not quickly ,  I should die with laughing . 	they’re certainly a peaceful couple ! 
that ,  being mad herself ,  she’s madly mated . 	that since she’s mad herself ,  she’s married a madman . 
neighbors and friends ,  though bride and bridegroom wants For to supply the places at the table ,  You know there wants no junkets at the feast . 	neighbors and friends ,  though we don’t have anyone for the bride and bridegroom’s places at the table ,  you know there’s nothing missing in the feast itself . 
she shall ,  Lucentio . 	she shall ,  Lucentio . 
come ,  gentlemen ,  let’s go . 	come ,  gentlemen ,  let’s go in . 
fie ,  fie on all tired jades ,  on all mad masters ,  and all foul ways ! 	to hell with all worn - out horses ,  all crazy masters ,  and all bad roads . 
was ever man so beaten ? 	was a man ever beaten as much as me ? 
was ever man so 'rayed ? 	was a man ever as dirty as me ? 
was ever man so weary ? 	was a man ever so tired ? 
I am sent before to make a fire ,  and they are coming after to warm them . 	I have been sent on ahead to light a fire ,  and they are coming after to warm themselves . 
now ,  were not I a little pot and soon hot ,  my very lips might freeze to my teeth ,  my tongue to the roof of my mouth ,  my heart in my belly ,  ere I should come by a fire to thaw me . 	It’s a good thing I’m like a little pot and warm up quickly ,  or else my lips themselves would freeze and stick to my teeth ,  my tongue to the roof of my mouth ,  and my heart would freeze in my belly ,  before I managed to get thawed out . 
but I with blowing the fire shall warm myself . 	I’ll warm myself by blowing on the fire . 
who is that calls so coldly ? 	who calls so coldly ? 
a piece of ice . 	a piece of ice . 
If thou doubt it ,  thou mayst slide from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run but my head and my neck . 	trust me ,  you could slide all the way from my shoulder to my heel taking no more of a running start than the distance between my head and my neck . 
a fire ,  good Curtis . 	start the fire ,  good Curtis . 
Is my master and his wife coming ,  Grumio ? 	are my master and his wife coming ,  Grumio ? 
oh ,  ay ,  Curtis ,  ay ,  and therefore fire ,  fire . 	yes ,  yes ,  Curtis ,  so hurry up and start the fire . 
cast on no water . 	leave out the water . 
Is she so hot a shrew as she’s reported ? 	Is she as fiery a shrew as they say ? 
she was ,  good Curtis ,  before this frost . 	well she was ,  good Curtis ,  before this frost . 
why ,  thy horn is a foot ,  and so long am I ,  at the least . 	your horn is a foot long ,  and I’m at least that size . 
I prithee ,  good Grumio ,  tell me ,  how goes the world ? 	so tell me ,  Grumio ,  how goes the world ? 
do thy duty ,  and have thy duty ,  for my master and mistress are almost frozen to death . 	therefore ,  do your duty and take your reward ,  because my master and mistress are nearly frozen to death . 
there’s fire ready . 	the fire is ready . 
and therefore ,  good Grumio ,  the news . 	so go on ,  tell me the news . 
why ,  therefore fire ,  for I have caught extreme cold . 	I think I’m getting delirious . 
where’s the cook ? 	where’s the cook ? 
Is supper ready ,  the house trimmed ,  rushes strewed ,  cobwebs swept ,  the servingmen in their new fustian ,  their white stockings ,  and every officer his wedding garment on ? 	Is supper ready ? 
be the Jacks fair within ,  the Jills fair without ,  the carpets laid ,  and everything in order ? 	are all the cups and glasses in their places ,  the tablecloths laid out—everything in order ? 
for God’s sake ,  a pot of small ale . 	for God’s sake ,  would someone bring me a mug of beer ! 
will ’t please your Honor taste of these conserves ? 	would your Honor like to try this dried fruit ? 
what raiment will your Honor wear today ? 	what garment would your Honor like to wear today ? 
I am Christophero Sly . 	I’m Christopher Sly . 
all ready . 	everything’s ready . 
and therefore ,  I pray thee ,  news . 	so tell me what’s been going on . 
first ,  know my horse is tired ,  my master and mistress fallen out . 	well ,  first of all ,  my horse is tired and my master and mistress have had a falling out . 
how ? 	how ? 
out of their saddles into the dirt ,  and thereby hangs a tale . 	from their saddles into the dirt—but that’s another story . 
let’s ha' ’t ,  good Grumio . 	well ,  let’s have it ,  Grumio . 
lend thine ear . 	lean forward . 
here . 	here . 
there ! 	there ! 
this ’tis to feel a tale ,  not to hear a tale . 	this is to feel the news ,  not hear it . 
and therefore ’tis called a sensible tale . 	that’s what makes it  “ sensitive ”  news . 
and this cuff was but to knock at your ear and beseech list'ning . 	I was just knocking to see if anyone was home . 
now I begin: Imprimis ,  we came down a foul hill ,  my master riding behind my mistress— Both of one horse ? 	now ,  I’ll begin: first ,  we came down a steep hill ,  my master riding behind my mistress— Both on one horse ? 
what’s that to thee ? 	what’s the difference ? 
why ,  a horse . 	well ,  the difference of a horse ! 
tell thou the tale ! 	It’s too bad . 
ay ,  and that thou and the proudest of you all shall find when he comes home . 	yes—as you and the rest will find out as soon as he’s home . 
but what talk I of this ? 	but why am I telling you this ? 
call forth Nathaniel ,  Joseph ,  Nicholas ,  Philip ,  Walter ,  Sugarsop ,  and the rest . 	get them in here—Nathaniel ,  Joseph ,  Nicholas ,  Philip ,  Walter ,  Sugarsop ,  and the rest . 
let their heads be slickly combed ,  their blue coats brushed ,  and their garters of an indifferent knit . 	tell them to slick down their hair ,  brush their blue coats ,  and make sure their socks match . 
let them curtsy with their left legs ,  and not presume to touch a hair of my master’s horse - tail till they kiss their hands . 	have them click their heels together and don’t dare touch a hair of the master’s horse’s tail till they kiss their hands . 
are they all ready ? 	are they all ready ? 
they are . 	they are . 
call them forth . 	get them in here . 
why ,  she hath a face of her own . 	she already has a face . 
who knows not that ? 	yeah ,  so ? 
thou ,  it seems ,  that calls for company to countenance her . 	you just said they had to face her . 
I call them forth to credit her . 	I meant they had to give her credit . 
why ,  she comes to borrow nothing of them . 	she’s not going to borrow money from them . 
welcome home ,  Grumio . 	welcome home ,  Grumio . 
how now ,  Grumio ? 	what’s up ,  Grumio ? 
what ,  Grumio ! 	hey ,  Grumio ! 
fellow Grumio ! 	my man Grumio ! 
how now ,  old lad ? 	so what’s the story ,  old boy ? 
e'en at hand ,  alighted by this . 	any minute . 
where be these knaves ? 	where are those bastards ? 
here ,  here ,  sir ! 	here ,  here ,  sir ! 
here ,  sir ! 	here ,  sir ! 
here ,  sir ! 	here ,  sir ! 
here ,  sir ! 	here ,  sir ! 
here ,  sir ! 	here ,  sir ! 
here ,  sir !  ”  You loggerheaded and unpolished grooms ! 	here ,  sir !  ”  You stupid ,  unpolished dolts ! 
where is the foolish knave I sent before ? 	where is the fool I sent on ahead ? 
here ,  sir ,  as foolish as I was before . 	here ,  sir ,  as foolish as ever . 
you peasant swain ! 	you unwashed farmworker ! 
you whoreson malt - horse drudge ! 	you bastard workhorse drudge ! 
did I not bid thee meet me in the park And bring along these rascal knaves with thee ? 	didn’t I tell you to meet me outside and bring these morons with you ? 
nathaniel’s coat ,  sir ,  was not fully made ,  And Gabriel’s pumps were all unpinked i' th' heel . 	nathaniel’s coat was being fixed ,  sir . 
there was no link to color Peter’s hat ,  And Walter’s dagger was not come from sheathing . 	and Walter couldn’t get his dagger out of its sheath . 
there were none fine but Adam ,  Rafe ,  and Gregory . 	only Adam ,  Rafe ,  and Gregory were ready . 
go ,  rascals ,  go ,  and fetch my supper in . 	go ,  blockheads ,  go ,  and bring my supper to me . 
one ,  Kate ,  that you must kiss and be acquainted with . — Where are my slippers ? 	where are my slippers ? 
shall I have some water ? — Come ,  Kate ,  and wash ,  and welcome heartily . — You whoreson villain ! 	can we have some water please here ? — Come and wash ,  Kate ,  make yourself at home . 
will you let it fall ? 	take it easy ! 
patience ,  I pray you ! 	please ! 
twas a fault unwilling . 	It was just an accident ! 
will you give thanks ,  sweet Kate ,  or else shall I ? — What’s this ? 	will you say grace ,  sweet Kate ,  or shall I ? —What is this ? 
mutton ? 	mutton ? 
ay . 	yes . 
who brought it ? 	who brought it out here ? 
I . 	I did . 
what dogs are these ! 	you bastards ! 
where is the rascal cook ? 	where is that moron of a cook ? 
how durst you ,  villains ,  bring it from the dresser And serve it thus to me that love it not ? 	how dare you serve it to me this way ! 
there ,  take it to you ,  trenchers ,  cups ,  and all ! 	there ,  take it all back—plates ,  cups ,  the whole thing . 
I pray you ,  husband ,  be not so disquiet . 	please ,  dear ,  calm down . 
the meat was well ,  if you were so contented . 	the meat was fine if you wanted to eat it . 
I tell thee ,  Kate ,  ’twas burnt and dried away . 	and I’m telling you it was burnt and dried out . 
come ,  I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber . 	come ,  I’ll show you your bridal chamber . 
peter ,  didst ever see the like ? 	peter ,  did you ever see anything like it ? 
he kills her in her own humor . 	he’s giving her a taste of her own medicine . 
where is he ? 	where is he ? 
away ,  away ,  for he is coming hither ! 	look out ,  he’s coming ! 
thus have I politicly begun my reign ,  And ’tis my hope to end successfully . 	well ,  I’ve begun my reign with a carefully thought - out plan ,  and I have every hope of succeeding . 
my falcon now is sharp and passing empty ,  And ,  till she stoop ,  she must not be full - gorged ,  For then she never looks upon her lure . 	my falcon is now hungry and unfed and must not be given enough to eat until she comes to me ,  for if her hunger is satisfied ,  she’ll pay no attention to the bait . 
another way I have to man my haggard ,  To make her come and know her keeper’s call . 	I have another plan to make my bird come to me and recognize her owner’s call is to keep her from sleeping—
that is ,  to watch her ,  as we watch these kites That bate and beat and will not be obedient . 	the way trainers do with young hawks that flutter and flap and will not obey . 
she ate no meat today ,  nor none shall eat . 	she had no food today and will have none . 
last night she slept not ,  nor tonight she shall not . 	last night she got no sleep ,  and she won’t get any tonight . 
as with the meat ,  some undeservèd fault I’ll find about the making of the bed ,  And here I’ll fling the pillow ,  there the bolster ,  This way the coverlet ,  another way the sheets . 	just as I did with the meat ,  I’ll make up some problem with the way the bed is made ,  and throw the pillow one way and the cushion the other ,  and the blanket over here and the sheets over there . 
and ,  in conclusion ,  she shall watch all night ,  And if she chance to nod I’ll rail and brawl ,  And with the clamor keep her still awake . 	and if she starts to drop off ,  I’ll rant and yell until I wake her up . 
he that knows better how to tame a shrew ,  Now let him speak; ’tis charity to show . 	If anyone here knows a better way to tame a shrew ,  speak up ,  please . 
Is ’t possible ,  friend Litio ,  that mistress Bianca Doth fancy any other but Lucentio ? 	It would be much appreciated . 
what ,  master ,  read you ? 	what are you reading ,  teacher ? 
first resolve me that . 	answer me that first . 
and may you prove ,  sir ,  master of your art . 	I hope you’re an expert in your field . 
I tell thee ,  Litio ,  this is wonderful ! 	let me come clean . 
mistake no more . 	I’m not really Litio . 
know ,  sir ,  that I am called Hortensio . 	my name is Hortensio ,  sir . 
see how they kiss and court ! 	look how they kiss and carry on ! 
fie on her ! 	the hell with her ! 
see how beastly she doth court him ! 	look how she carries on with him ! 
would all the world but he had quite forsworn ! 	It’s revolting ! 
for me ,  that I may surely keep mine oath ,  I will be married to a wealthy widow ,  Ere three days pass ,  which hath as long loved me As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard . 	well ,  to be on the safe side—so I don’t go back on my promise—I plan to get myself married to a wealthy widow within the next three days . 
and so farewell ,  Signior Lucentio . 	farewell ,  then ,  Signior Lucentio . 
kindness in women ,  not their beauteous looks ,  Shall win my love ,  and so I take my leave ,  In resolution as I swore before . 	from now on ,  goodness in women ,  not superficial beauty ,  will win my heart . 
what ,  would you make me mad ? 	what ,  are you trying to make me crazy ? 
am not I Christopher Sly ,  old Sly’s son of Burton Heath ,  by birth a peddler ,  by education a cardmaker ,  by transmutation a bearherd ,  and now by present profession a tinker ? 	I’m Christopher Sly ,  son of old Sly of Barton - on - Heath ,  a peddler by birth ,  a  Oh ,  this is why your poor wife is mourning ! 
oh ,  this is it that makes your servants droop ! 	and this is why your servants hang their heads in sorrow ! 
o noble lord ,  bethink thee of thy birth ,  Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment ,  And banish hence these abject lowly dreams . 	oh noble lord ,  consider your lineage . 
look how thy servants do attend on thee ,  Each in his office ready at thy beck . 	look how your servants wait on you ,  each one ready to do whatever you command . 
wilt thou have music ? 	would you care to hear some music ? 
hark ! 	listen ! 
apollo plays ,  And twenty cagèd nightingales do sing: Or wilt thou sleep ? 	do you want to sleep ? 
we’ll have thee to a couch Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed On purpose trimmed up for Semiramis . 	we’ll have a couch made up that’s softer and more fragrant even than the bed of lustful
or wilt thou hunt ? 	you’re busted . 
nay ,  I have ta'en you napping ,  gentle love ,  And have forsworn you with Hortensio . 	hortensio and I have given you up . 
tranio ,  you jest . 	you can’t mean it ,  Tranio ! 
but have you both forsworn me ? 	have you both really given me up ? 
mistress ,  we have . 	yes ,  ma'am ,  we have . 
then we are rid of Litio . 	so Litio’s out of the picture . 
I' faith ,  he’ll have a lusty widow now That shall be wooed and wedded in a day . 	he’s going after a young widow . 
god give him joy ! 	well ,  good for him ! 
ay ,  and he’ll tame her . 	yeah ,  and he’s going to tame her . 
he says so ,  Tranio ? 	Is that what he says ? 
the taming school ? 	the taming school ? 
what ,  is there such a place ? 	Is there such a place ? 
ay ,  mistress ,  and Petruchio is the master ,  That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue . 	master ,  master ,  I’ve been on the lookout so long ,  I’m ready to fall down dead—but I’ve got one ,  finally ! 
what is he ,  Biondello ? 	what does he look like ,  Biondello ? 
and what of him ,  Tranio ? 	and what about him ,  Tranio ? 
take in your love ,  and then let me alone . 	go ,  take your sweetheart and leave him to me . 
god save you ,  sir . 	may God keep you well ,  sir . 
you are welcome . 	this is it ,  for now . 
of Mantua . 	mantua . 
my life ,  sir ! 	killed ? 
how ,  I pray ? 	why ? 
for that goes hard . 	that would be a little extreme ! 
tis death for anyone in Mantua To come to Padua . 	It’s a capital offense for anyone from Mantua to come to Padua . 
know you not the cause ? 	didn’t you know ? 
tis marvel ,  but that you are but newly come ,  You might have heard it else proclaimed about . 	It’s strange that you haven’t heard . 
alas ,  sir ,  it is worse for me than so ,  For I have bills for money by exchange From Florence ,  and must here deliver them . 	I have promissory notes from Florence that I have to deliver . 
ay ,  sir ,  in Pisa have I often been ,  Pisa renownèd for grave citizens . 	oh yes ,  sir ,  I have often been to Pisa—Pisa ,  City of Wise Men . 
o sir ,  I do ,  and will repute you ever The patron of my life and liberty . 	oh sir ,  I accept . 
In all these circumstances I’ll instruct you . 	and I’ll be eternally grateful to you . 
no ,  no ,  forsooth ,  I dare not for my life . 	no ,  no ,  I can’t ,  really . 
the more my wrong ,  the more his spite appears . 	the more I suffer ,  the more spiteful he becomes . 
what ,  did he marry me to famish me ? 	did he marry me just to starve me ? 
If not ,  elsewhere they meet with charity . 	and if they don’t find charity there ,  they find it someplace else . 
but I ,  who never knew how to entreat ,  Nor never needed that I should entreat ,  Am starved for meat ,  giddy for lack of sleep ,  With oaths kept waking and with brawling fed . 	but I ,  who have never known how to beg and never had to beg ,  am starved for food ,  dizzy with lack of sleep ,  kept awake with curses and fed with brawling . 
and that which spites me more than all these wants ,  He does it under name of perfect love ,  As who should say ,  if I should sleep or eat ,  'Twere deadly sickness or else present death . 	and what irks me more than all these things put together is that he does it under the pretense of love—as though for me to eat or sleep would bring on fatal illness or sudden death . 
what say you to a neat’s foot ? 	what do you say to a calf’s foot ? 
tis passing good . 	oh ,  lovely . 
I prithee let me have it . 	can I have some ? 
I fear it is too choleric a meat . 	I’m afraid it will  I’d love it . 
good Grumio ,  fetch it me . 	nice Grumio ,  bring me some . 
I cannot tell . 	I don’t know . 
I fear ’tis choleric . 	I’m afraid it will make you too hot ,  too . 
what say you to a piece of beef and mustard ? 	what do you say to a piece of beef with mustard ? 
ay ,  but the mustard is too hot a little . 	yes ,  but the mustard is probably too hot . 
why then ,  the beef ,  and let the mustard rest . 	well then ,  the beef without the mustard . 
nay then ,  I will not . 	absolutely not . 
you shall have the mustard Or else you get no beef of Grumio . 	you’ll take the mustard or you’ll get no beef from Grumio . 
then both ,  or one ,  or anything thou wilt . 	then both ,  or one ,  or anything you like . 
why then ,  the mustard without the beef . 	how about the mustard without the beef . 
go ,  get thee gone ,  I say . 	get out of here ,  you measly ,  lying wretch . 
mistress ,  what cheer ? 	cheer up . 
pluck up thy spirits . 	give us a smile . 
here love ,  thou seest how diligent I am ,  To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee . 	look ,  love ,  see how devoted I am ? 
I am sure ,  sweet Kate ,  this kindness merits thanks . 	I am sure ,  sweet Kate ,  this kindness deserves thanks . 
what ,  not a word ? 	what ,  not a word ? 
nay ,  then thou lov’st it not And all my pains is sorted to no proof . 	I guess you don’t want it . 
here ,  take away this dish . 	here ,  take away the dish . 
I pray you ,  let it stand . 	please ,  leave it here . 
I thank you ,  sir . 	thank you ,  sir . 
come ,  mistress Kate ,  I’ll bear you company . 	come ,  mistress Kate ,  I’ll join you . 
come ,  tailor ,  let us see these ornaments . 	now ,  tailor ,  let’s see what you’ve got . 
lay forth the gown . 	lay out the gown . 
what news with you ,  sir ? 	what can I do for you ,  sir ? 
here is the cap your Worship did bespeak . 	here is the cap your Worship ordered . 
why ,  this was molded on a porringer ! 	why ,  this was modeled on a porridge bowl ! 
a velvet dish ! 	no ,  definitely not ! 
fie ,  fie ,  ’tis lewd and filthy ! 	It’s cheap and nasty ! 
why ,  ’tis a cockle or a walnut shell ,  A knack ,  a toy ,  a trick ,  a baby’s cap . 	It’s like a cockleshell or a walnut shell ,  a joke ,  a prank ,  a doll’s cap . 
away with it ! 	take it away . 
come ,  let me have a bigger . 	bring me a bigger one . 
I’ll have no bigger . 	I won’t have one any bigger . 
when you are gentle ,  you shall have one too ,  And not till then . 	when you are gentle ,  you shall have one ,  too ,  and not till then . 
why ,  sir ,  I trust I may have leave to speak ,  And speak I will . 	sir ,  I think I have the right to speak ,  and speak I certainly will . 
I am no child ,  no babe . 	I am not a child or an infant . 
your betters have endured me say my mind ,  And if you cannot ,  best you stop your ears . 	better men than you have heard me speak my mind ,  and if you can’t take it ,  then you’d better plug your ears . 
why ,  thou say’st true . 	you know ,  you’re right . 
It is a paltry cap ,  A custard - coffin ,  a bauble ,  a silken pie . 	It’s a measly little cap ,  a dessert crust ,  a plaything ,  a silk pie . 
I love thee well in that thou lik’st it not . 	I love you all the more for not liking it . 
love me or love me not ,  I like the cap ,  And it I will have ,  or I will have none . 	I don’t care if you love me or not ,  I like the cap and I’ll have it or I won’t have any . 
thy gown ? 	now ,  your gown ? 
why ,  ay . 	yes ,  yes . 
come ,  tailor ,  let us see ’t . 	come ,  tailor ,  show it to us . 
o mercy ,  God ! 	merciful God ! 
what’s this ? 	what do you call this ? 
a sleeve ? 	a sleeve ? 
tis like a demi - cannon . 	It’s like a cannon . 
what ,  up and down ,  carved like an apple tart ? 	carved it up and down like an apple tart ? 
here’s snip and nip and cut and slish and slash ,  Like to a censer in a barber’s shop . 	snip and snip and cut and slash—it’s got more holes than a sieve ! 
why ,  what i' devil’s name ,  tailor ,  call’st thou this ? 	what in the world do you call this ,  tailor ! 
you bid me make it orderly and well ,  According to the fashion and the time . 	you told me to make it well and properly and in keeping with the current style . 
marry ,  and did . 	certainly ,  I did . 
but if you be remembered ,  I did not bid you mar it to the time . 	but if you remember ,  I didn’t tell you to parody the style . 
I’ll none of it . 	I won’t take it . 
hence ,  make your best of it . 	do whatever you want with it . 
I never saw a better - fashioned gown ,  More quaint ,  more pleasing ,  nor more commendable . 	I never saw a better - designed gown ,  more elegant and pleasing and well made . 
why ,  true ,  he means to make a puppet of thee . 	yes ,  that’s it ! 
thou liest ,  thou thread ,  thou thimble ,  Thou yard ,  three - quarters ,  half - yard ,  quarter ,  nail ! 	It’s a lie ,  you thread ,  you thimble ,  you measurement ! 
thou flea ,  thou nit ,  thou winter cricket thou ! 	you flea ,  you louse ,  you winter cricket ! 
braved in mine own house with a skein of thread ? 	disrespected in my own house by a spool of thread ! 
I tell thee ,  I ,  that thou hast marred her gown . 	I tell you ,  you’ve ruined her gown . 
your Worship is deceived . 	It’s not true . 
the gown is made Just as my master had direction . 	the gown was made just as my master was directed . 
grumio gave order how it should be done . 	grumio gave the order for how it should be done . 
I gave him no order . 	I gave him no order . 
I gave him the stuff . 	I gave him the material . 
but how did you desire it should be made ? 	but how did you want it made ? 
marry ,  sir ,  with needle and thread . 	with a needle and thread . 
but did you not request to have it cut ? 	but didn’t you expect us to cut the cloth ? 
face not me . 	well ,  don’t face off with me . 
thou hast braved many men; brave not me . 	you have bested many things ,  well don’t try and best me . 
I will neither be faced nor braved . 	I will not be faced or bested . 
I say unto thee ,  I bid thy master cutout the gown ,  but I did not bid him cut it to pieces . 	I tell you I requested that your master cut out the gown ,  but I didn’t ask him to cut it all to pieces . 
why ,  here is the note of the fashion to testify . 	why ,  here is the order to prove it . 
read it . 	read it . 
the note lies in ’s throat ,  if he say I said so . 	the note is a big fat liar if it says I said so . 
dost thou love pictures ? 	do you like pictures ? 
thou hast a lady far more beautiful Than any woman in this waning age . 	you have a noble wife who is much more beautiful than any other woman in this declining age . 
and till the tears that she hath shed for thee Like envious floods o'errun her lovely face ,  She was the fairest creature in the world— And yet she is inferior to none . 	before she began shedding tears all over her lovely face ,  she was the fairest creature in the world—and even now she has no equal . 
I confess the cape . 	I admit the cape . 
I confess two sleeves . 	I admit two sleeves . 
ay ,  there’s the villany . 	ah ,  there’s the problem . 
error i' the bill ,  sir ,  error i' the bill ! 	error in the bill ,  sir ,  error in the bill ! 
I commanded the sleeves should be cut out and sewed up again ,  and that I’ll prove upon thee ,  though thy little finger be armed in a thimble . 	I ordered that the sleeves be cut out and sewed up again ,  and I’ll prove it in combat even if your little finger is armed with your thimble . 
I am for thee straight . 	I am ready for you . 
take thou the bill ,  give me thy mete -  yard ,  and spare not me . 	you take the bill and I’ll take your yardstick . 
god - a - mercy ,  Grumio ! 	god have mercy ,  Grumio ! 
then he shall have no odds . 	he won’t have a chance . 
well ,  sir ,  in brief ,  the gown is not for me . 	well ,  sir ,  the gown is not for me . 
you are i' the right ,  sir ,  ’tis for my mistress . 	you are right ,  it’s for my mistress . 
go ,  take it up unto thy master’s use . 	go ,  take it away and let your master make whatever use of it he can . 
villain ,  not for thy life ! 	certainly not ! 
take up my mistress' gown for thy master’s use ! 	take off my mistress' gown for your master’s use ! 
why ,  sir ,  what’s your conceit in that ? 	why ,  what’s the problem ? 
o ,  sir ,  the conceit is deeper than you think for . 	oh ,  sir ,  the problem goes far deeper than you realize . 
take up my mistress' gown to his master’s use ! 	take up my mistress' gown for his master’s use ! 
o ,  fie ,  fie ,  fie ! 	oh ,  that’s disgusting ! 
well ,  come ,  my Kate . 	ah well ,  my Kate . 
what ,  is the jay more precious than the lark Because his feathers are more beautiful ? 	I mean ,  is the jay more precious than the lark because his feather is more beautiful ? 
or is the adder better than the eel Because his painted skin contents the eye ? 	Is the snake better than the eel because the pattern on his back pleases the eye ? 
oh ,  no ,  good Kate . 	hardly ,  Kate . 
If thou account’st it shame ,  lay it on me ,  And therefore frolic ! 	If you regard it as shameful ,  put the shame on me . 
we will hence forthwith To feast and sport us at thy father’s house . 	we’re off to eat and whoop it up at your father’s house . 
I dare assure you ,  sir ,  ’tis almost two ,  And ’twill be supper time ere you come there . 	I hate to say it ,  but it’s almost two and we won’t get there before suppertime . 
It shall be seven ere I go to horse . 	It shall be seven o'clock before I get on my horse . 
look what I speak ,  or do ,  or think to do ,  You are still crossing it . 	whatever I say ,  or think ,  or do ,  you’re continually contradicting it . 
sirs ,  let ’t alone . 	sirs ,  never mind . 
I will not go today ,  and ere I do It shall be what o'clock I say it is . 	we won’t go today—or any day until it’s clear that it shall be whatever time I say it is . 
ay ,  what else ? 	yes ,  certainly . 
and but I be deceived ,  Signior Baptista may remember me ,  Near twenty years ago ,  in Genoa ,  Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus . 	unless I am mistaken ,  Signior Baptista may remember me from the Pegasus in Genoa ,  where we both stayed twenty years ago . 
I warrant you . 	of course I will . 
but ,  sir ,  here comes your boy . 	but ,  sir ,  here comes your servant . 
tut ,  fear not me . 	don’t worry about me . 
I told him that your father was at Venice ,  And that you looked for him this day in Padua . 	I told him that your father was in Venice ,  and that you expected him to arrive in Padua today . 
here comes Baptista . 	he gives BIONDELLO  Here comes Baptista . 
set your countenance ,  sir . 	places ,  everyone ! 
signior Baptista ,  you are happily met . — Sir ,  this is the gentleman I told you of . 	signior Baptista ,  I’m glad to see you . —Sir ,  this is the gentleman I told you of . 
I pray you stand good father to me now . 	I hope you’ll be a good father to me now . 
give me Bianca for my patrimony . 	give me Bianca for my inheritance . 
sir ,  pardon me in what I have to say . 	sir ,  pardon me for what I am about to say . 
your plainness and your shortness please me well . 	I appreciate your frankness and your brevity . 
right true it is your son Lucentio here Doth love my daughter and she loveth him ,  Or both dissemble deeply their affections . 	It’s true that your son Lucentio here loves my daughter ,  and she loves him—or else they’re putting on quite an act . 
your son shall have my daughter with consent . 	your son will have my consent to marry my daughter . 
not in my house ,  Lucentio ,  for you know Pitchers have ears ,  and I have many servants . 	not in my house ,  Lucentio . 
besides ,  old Gremio is heark'ning still ,  And happily we might be interrupted . 	my servants might overhear ,  and old Gremio is still hanging around ,  so we might be interrupted . 
I pray the gods she may ,  with all my heart ! 	I hope with all my heart she will ! 
cambio . 	cambio . 
what sayest thou ,  Biondello ? 	what is it ,  Biondello ? 
you saw my master wink and laugh upon you ? 	you saw my master wink and laugh at you ? 
biondello ,  what of that ? 	what about it ? 
I pray thee ,  moralize them . 	please ,  educate me . 
then thus: Baptista is safe ,  talking with the deceiving father of a deceitful son . 	he’s talking with the bogus father about the bogus son . 
and what of him ? 	and so— ? 
his daughter is to be brought by you to the supper . 	you are to bring his daughter to the supper . 
and then ? 	and then ? 
the old priest at Saint Luke’s Church is at your command at all hours . 	the old priest at Saint Luke’s Church is at your command at all hours . 
and what of all this ? 	and what of all this ? 
I cannot tell ,  except they are busied about a counterfeit assurance . 	I don’t know ,  except they are busy with some phony guarantee . 
take you assurance of her cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum . 	so go and put your stamp on the girl . 
to th' church take the priest ,  clerk ,  and some sufficient honest witnesses . 	go to the church: take the priest ,  the clerk ,  and some reasonably honest witnesses . 
If this be not that you look for ,  I have no more to say ,  But bid Bianca farewell forever and a day . 	If this isn’t what you’ve been hoping for ,  I have no more to say except that you ought to say goodbye to Bianca forever . 
I knew a wench married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit ,  and so may you ,  sir . 	I knew a girl who was married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit . 
and so adieu ,  sir . 	farewell ,  sir . 
my master hath appointed me to go to Saint Luke’s to bid the priest be ready to come against you come with your appendix . 	my master has instructed me to go to Saint Luke’s to tell the priest to be ready in case you should show up with your better half . 
she will be pleased . 	she will be pleased . 
then wherefore should I doubt ? 	then why am I worried ? 
It shall go hard if  “ Cambio ”  go without her . 	It will be hard if  “ Cambio ”  loses her . 
come on ,  i' God’s name ,  once more toward our father’s . 	come ,  let’s continue on toward your father’s house . 
good Lord ,  how bright and goodly shines the moon ! 	good Lord ,  how bright and splendid is the moon tonight ! 
the moon ? 	the moon ? 
the sun ! 	you mean the sun ! 
It is not moonlight now . 	It is not nighttime now . 
I say it is the moon that shines so bright . 	I say it’s the moon that shines so bright . 
I know it is the sun that shines so bright . 	I know it’s the sun that shines so bright . 
now ,  by my mother’s son ,  and that’s myself ,  It shall be moon ,  or star ,  or what I list ,  Or e'er I journey to your father’s house . 	now ,  by my mother’s son ,  and that’s me ,  it will be moon or star or whatever I want before I’ll travel to your father’s house . 
I say it is the moon . 	I say it’s the moon . 
I know it is the moon . 	I know it’s the moon . 
nay ,  then you lie . 	well ,  you’re a liar ,  then . 
It is the blessèd sun . 	It’s the blessed sun . 
then God be blessed ,  it is the blessèd sun . 	then God be praised ,  it  Petruchio ,  do whatever you like . 
petruchio ,  go thy ways; the field is won . 	you’ve won . 
well ,  forward ,  forward ! 	well ,  onward ,  then . 
thus the bowl should run ,  And not unluckily against the bias . 	that’s how things should be—straight and smooth . 
but ,  soft ! 	but ,  hang on ! 
company is coming here . 	I hear someone coming . 
young budding virgin ,  fair and fresh and sweet ,  Whither away ,  or where is thy abode ? 	young budding virgin ,  fair and pure and sweet ,  where are you off to ? 
happy the parents of so fair a child . 	your parents are lucky to have such a lovely child . 
will ’t please your Mightiness to wash your hands ? 	Is  Would your Mightiness care to wash his hands ? 
o ,  how we joy to see your wit restored ! 	we’re overjoyed to see you sane again . 
o ,  that once more you knew but what you are ! 	If only you had a clearer memory of who you are ! 
these fifteen years you have been in a dream Or ,  when you waked ,  so waked as if you slept . 	these past fifteen years you have been living in a dream ,  and even when you were awake ,  it was as though you slept . 
these fifteen years ! 	fifteen years ! 
by my fay ,  a goodly nap . 	that’s some nap . 
but did I never speak of all that time ? 	but I never spoke the whole time ? 
o ,  yes ,  my lord ,  but very idle words . 	oh yes ,  you spoke ,  my lord ,  but total nonsense . 
why ,  sir ,  you know no house nor no such maid ,  Nor no such men as you have reckoned up ,  As Stephen Sly and old John Naps of Greece ,  And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell ,  And twenty more such names and men as these ,  Which never were ,  nor no man ever saw . 	but sir ,  there is no such house ,  no such maid ,  and no such men as you have dreamed up ,  like a certain Stephen Sly and one old John Naps of Greece ,  a Peter Turph ,  one  “ Henry Pimpernell ,  ”  and twenty more men of this sort—who never actually existed . 
why ,  how now ,  Kate ! 	why ,  dear me ,  Kate ! 
I hope thou art not mad . 	I hope you haven’t lost your mind . 
this is a man—old ,  wrinkled ,  faded ,  withered— And not a maiden ,  as thou say’st he is . 	this is not a maiden ,  as you say ,  but an old man—wrinkled ,  faded ,  and withered . 
fair sir ,  and you ,  my merry mistress ,  That with your strange encounter much amazed me ,  My name is called Vincentio ,  my dwelling Pisa ,  And bound I am to Padua ,  there to visit A son of mine which long I have not seen . 	well ,  sir ,  and you ,  witty lady ,  who gave me quite a turn with your strange talk ,  my name is Vincentio ,  my hometown Pisa ,  and I am traveling to Padua to visit a son of mine whom I haven’t seen in a long while . 
what is his name ? 	what is his name ? 
lucentio ,  gentle sir . 	lucentio ,  sir . 
happily met ,  the happier for thy son . 	a fortunate coincidence—more fortunate for your son . 
the sister to my wife ,  this gentlewoman ,  Thy son by this hath married . 	the sister of my wife ,  this lady here ,  is married to your son . 
wonder not Nor be grieved . 	and there’s no need for wonder or worry . 
let me embrace with old Vincentio ,  And wander we to see thy honest son ,  Who will of thy arrival be full joyous . 	let me embrace the father of Lucentio ,  and then we’ll journey on to see your son ,  who will rejoice at your arrival . 
I do assure thee ,  father ,  so it is . 	I assure you ,  sir ,  it’s true . 
well ,  Petruchio ,  this has put me in heart . 	well ,  Petruchio ,  all this is very encouraging . 
softly and swiftly ,  sir ,  for the priest is ready . 	the priest is already there . 
I fly ,  Biondello . 	we’re off ,  Biondello . 
nay ,  faith ,  I’ll see the church a' your back ,  and then come back to my master’s as soon as I can . 	I’ll see them safely married first and then hurry back to my master’s . 
I marvel Cambio comes not all this while . 	I wonder why Cambio hasn’t shown up in all this time . 
sir ,  here’s the door . 	here is the door ,  sir . 
this is Lucentio’s house . 	this is Lucentio’s house . 
my father’s bears more toward the marketplace . 	my father - in - law lives closer to the marketplace . 
thither must I ,  and here I leave you ,  sir . 	that’s where I’m going now ,  so I’ll leave you here . 
you shall not choose but drink before you go . 	you must not go without having a drink first . 
they’re busy within . 	they’re pretty busy in there . 
you were best knock louder . 	you’d better knock louder . 
Is Signior Lucentio within ,  sir ? 	Is Signior Lucentio at home ,  sir ? 
what if a man bring him a hundred pound or two to make merry withal ? 	what if a fellow were bringing him a couple of hundred pounds to toss around ? 
hope I may choose ,  sir . 	I believe I have some choice in the matter ,  sir . 
come hither ,  you rogue ! 	come here ,  you wretch ! 
what ,  have you forgot me ? 	what ,  have you forgotten me ? 
forgot you ! 	forgotten you ! 
no ,  sir . 	no ,  sir . 
I could not forget you ,  for I never saw you before in all my life . 	I could not forget you ,  since I never saw you before in my life . 
what ,  my old worshipful old master ? 	my honorable ,  reverend master ? 
yes ,  marry ,  sir . 	yes ,  of course . 
see where he looks out of the window . 	there he is at the window . 
Is ’t so ,  indeed . 	Is that so ? 
help ,  help ,  help ! 	help ,  help ,  help ! 
here’s a madman will murder me . 	this madman will murder me . 
oh ,  I am undone ,  I am undone ! 	how dare I ? 
what ,  is the man lunatic ? 	how dare    What ,  is the man crazy ? 
thy father ! 	your father ! 
o villain ! 	why ,  you scoundrel ! 
he is a sailmaker in Bergamo . 	your father is a sailmaker in Bergamo . 
you mistake ,  sir ,  you mistake ,  sir . 	you’re wrong ,  sir ,  very wrong . 
pray ,  what do you think is his name ? 	why ,  what do you imagine his name to be ? 
his name ! 	his name ! 
lucentio ! 	lucentio ! 
oh ,  he hath murdered his master ! 	oh God ,  he’s murdered his master ! 
o my son ,  my son ! 	oh ,  my son ,  my son ! 
tell me ,  thou villain ,  where is my son Lucentio ? 	tell me ,  you monster ,  where is my son Lucentio ? 
carry this mad knave to the jail . —Father Baptista ,  I charge you see that he be forthcoming . 	take this mad wretch to jail . —Father - in - law Baptista ,  will you see that he’s available to appear in court ? 
carry me to the jail ? 	take me off to jail ? 
he shall not go to prison . 	he mustn’t go to prison . 
talk not ,  Signior Gremio . 	be quiet ,  Signior Gremio . 
I say he shall go to prison . 	I say he shall go to prison . 
take heed ,  Signior Baptista ,  lest you be cony - catched in this business . 	be careful ,  Signior Baptista ,  lest you be made the dupe in this business . 
I dare swear this is the right Vincentio . 	I could swear this is the real Vincentio . 
nay ,  I dare not swear it . 	well ,  no ,  not literally . 
yes ,  I know thee to be Signior Lucentio . 	no ,  I know that you’re Signior Lucentio . 
away with the dotard ! 	away with the doddering fool ! 
to the jail with him ! 	take him off to jail ! 
o ! 	we’re ruined ! 
we are spoiled and yonder he is ! 	there he is ! 
pardon ,  sweet father . 	pardon ,  dear father . 
lives my sweet son ? 	dear son ,  you’re alive ! 
pardon ,  dear father . 	pardon us ,  dear father . 
how hast thou offended ? 	what have you done ? 
where is Lucentio ? 	where is Lucentio ? 
here’s Lucentio ,  right son to the right Vincentio ,  That have by marriage made thy daughter mine While counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne . 	I have made your daughter mine by marriage while false impressions blinded your eyes . 
here’s packing ,  with a witness ,  to deceive us all ! 	we’ve all been duped . 
where is that damnèd villain ,  Tranio ,  That faced and braved me in this matter so ? 	where is that damned wretch ,  Tranio ,  who defied me in such a disgraceful manner ? 
why ,  tell me ,  is not this my Cambio ? 	say ,  isn’t this the Latin master Cambio ? 
cambio is changed into Lucentio . 	cambio is transformed into Lucentio . 
love wrought these miracles . 	It was love that performed these miracles . 
bianca’s love Made me exchange my state with Tranio ,  While he did bear my countenance in the town ,  And happily I have arrivèd at the last Unto the wishèd haven of my bliss . 	bianca’s love made me trade places with Tranio while he masqueraded as me around town . 
what Tranio did ,  myself enforced him to . 	what Tranio did ,  he did at my command . 
then pardon him ,  sweet father ,  for my sake . 	so pardon him ,  dear father ,  for my sake . 
I’ll slit the villain’s nose that would have sent me to the jail . 	no ,  I’ll slit the nose of the villain who would have sent me to jail . 
but do you hear ,  sir ,  have you married my daughter without asking my goodwill ? 	but sir ,  have you married my daughter without my consent ? 
fear not ,  Baptista ,  we will content you . 	don’t worry ,  Baptista ,  you’ll be perfectly satisfied . 
go to . 	you’ll see . 
my cake is dough ,  but I’ll in among the rest ,  Out of hope of all but my share of the feast . 	all I can hope for now is a share of the feast . 
husband ,  let’s follow to see the end of this ado . 	let’s follow them to see how this turns out . 
first kiss me ,  Kate ,  and we will . 	first kiss me ,  Kate ,  and then we will . 
what ,  in the midst of the street ? 	what ,  here in the middle of the street ? 
what ,  art thou ashamed of me ? 	are you ashamed of me ? 
no ,  sir ,  God forbid ,  but ashamed to kiss . 	but I’m ashamed to kiss ,  sir . 
why ,  then let’s home again . 	all right then ,  back home we go . 
nay ,  I will give thee a kiss . 	no ,  wait . 
Is not this well ? 	I  Isn’t this good ? 
come ,  my sweet Kate . 	come ,  my sweet Kate . 
better once than never ,  for never too late . 	better late than never—and it’s never too late to change . 
now Lord be thanked for my good amends ! 	well ,  thank God I’m cured ! 
amen . 	amen . 
I thank thee . 	I thank you all . 
thou shalt not lose by it . 	you won’t regret this . 
how fares my noble lord ? 	how is my noble lord ? 
marry ,  I fare well ,  For here is cheer enough . 	this is all quite pleasant . 
where is my wife ? 	where is my wife ? 
here ,  noble lord . 	here ,  noble lord . 
what is thy will with her ? 	what is your wish with regard to her ? 
are you my wife and will not call me  “ husband ”  ? 	you call yourself my wife ,  yet you don’t call me  “ husband ”  ? 
my men should call me  “ lord .  ”  I am your goodman . 	It’s my men who should call me  “ lord .  ”  I’m your man ,  your fellow . 
my fair Bianca ,  bid my father welcome ,  While I with selfsame kindness welcome thine . 	my fair Bianca ,  bid my father welcome ,  while I with equal affection welcome yours . 
my banquet is to close our stomachs up ,  After our great good cheer . 	this last course here is for closing up the stomach after great feasting . 
pray you ,  sit down ,  For now we sit to chat as well as eat . 	now everyone be seated ,  as this is the part where we sit and chat as well as eat . 
nothing but sit and sit ,  and eat and eat ! 	all we do is sit and sit and eat and eat . 
for both our sakes ,  I would that word were true . 	I wish that were true for both our sakes ! 
now ,  for my life ,  Hortensio fears his widow . 	hortensio
you are very sensible ,  and yet you miss my sense: I mean ,  Hortensio is afeard of you . 	that’s very sensible ,  but you missed my sense: I meant Hortensio is afraid of you . 
he that is giddy thinks the world turns round . 	he who is dizzy thinks the world is spinning . 
roundly replied . 	a very candid reply . 
mistress ,  how mean you that ? 	what’s that supposed to mean ? 
thus I conceive by him . 	that’s what I conceive of him . 
very well mended . 	nice save ! 
kiss him for that ,  good widow . 	kiss him for that ,  good widow . 
he that is giddy thinks the world turns round ” — I pray you ,  tell me what you meant by that . 	he who is dizzy thinks the world is spinning ” —please ,  tell me what you meant by that . 
your husband being troubled with a shrew Measures my husband’s sorrow by his woe . 	your husband ,  being saddled with a shrew ,  projects his own suffering onto my husband . 
and now you know my meaning . 	and now you know my meaning . 
a very mean meaning . 	a very nasty meaning . 
right ,  I mean you . 	my meaning  And I
to her ,  widow ! 	you tell her ,  widow ! 
a hundred marks ,  my Kate does put her down . 	I’ll bet you a hundred marks ,  my Kate puts her flat on her back . 
that’s my office . 	well ,  that’s really my job . 
spoke like an officer ! 	well said ! 
ha' to thee ,  lad ! 	here’s to you ! 
how likes Gremio these quick - witted folks ? 	what do you think of these quick - witted folks ,  Gremio ? 
believe me ,  sir ,  they butt together well . 	they certainly do like to butt heads ! 
ay ,  but not frighted me . 	yes ,  but not out of fear . 
therefore I’ll sleep again . 	I’ll go back to sleep now . 
nay ,  that you shall not . 	no ,  you shall not . 
am I your bird ? 	I’ll
she hath prevented me . 	well ,  she got away . 
here ,  Signior Tranio ,  This bird you aimed at ,  though you hit her not . — Therefore a health to all that shot and missed . 	signior Tranio ,  you also took aim at that bird ,  though you didn’t hit her . —So here’s a health to all who’ve shot and missed . 
a good swift simile ,  but something currish . 	a witty if a cynical reply . 
tis well ,  sir ,  that you hunted for yourself . 	It’s good you hunted for yourself ,  sir . 
tranio hits you now . 	tranio got you that time . 
I thank thee for that gird ,  good Tranio . 	I thank you for that quip ,  good Tranio . 
he has a little galled me ,  I confess . 	he’s made me a little sore ,  I’ll admit . 
and ,  as the jest did glance away from me ,  'Tis ten to one it maimed you two outright . 	but since the gibe glanced off me ,  ten to one it hit you both straight on . 
now ,  in good sadness ,  son Petruchio ,  I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all . 	seriously ,  though ,  son Petruchio ,  I think you have the most thoroughgoing shrew of us all . 
well ,  I say no . 	well ,  I disagree . 
content . 	agreed . 
what’s the wager ? 	what’s the bet ? 
twenty crowns . 	twenty crowns . 
twenty crowns ? 	twenty crowns ? 
I’ll venture so much of my hawk or hound ,  But twenty times so much upon my wife . 	I’d wager twenty times as much on my wife . 
a hundred then . 	a hundred then . 
content . 	agreed . 
a match ! 	good ! 
tis done . 	It’s a bet . 
who shall begin ? 	who should begin ? 
that will I . 	I will . 
go ,  Biondello ,  bid your mistress come to me . 	biondello ,  go and tell your mistress to come to me . 
I go . 	here I go . 
son ,  I’ll be your half Bianca comes . 	son ,  I’ll stake you half that Bianca comes . 
I’ll have no halves . 	I’ll have no halves . 
how ! 	what ! 
she’s busy ,  and she cannot come !  ”  Is that an answer ? 	she’s busy and cannot come !  ”  Is that an answer ? 
ay ,  and a kind one too . 	yes ,  and a nice one at that . 
pray God ,  sir ,  your wife send you not a worse . 	pray God your wife doesn’t send you a worse one . 
I hope better . 	I’m hoping for better . 
now ,  where’s my wife ? 	so ,  where’s my wife ? 
she says you have some goodly jest in hand . 	she says she thinks this is a prank . 
she will not come . 	she will not come . 
she bids you come to her . 	she says that you should come to her . 
worse and worse . 	worse and worse ! 
I know her answer . 	she  I can guess her answer . 
what ? 	what ? 
she will not . 	she will not . 
now ,  by my holidam ,  here comes Katherina ! 	by all that’s holy ,  here comes Katherina ! 
what is your will ,  sir ,  that you send for me ? 	you sent for me ,  sir ? 
where is your sister ,  and Hortensio’s wife ? 	where are your sister and Hortensio’s wife ? 
they sit conferring by the parlor fire . 	they sit chatting by the parlor fire . 
go fetch them hither . 	go bring them here . 
If they deny to come ,  Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands . 	If they refuse to come ,  get physical—use a whip if you have to ,  but get them out here to their husbands . 
here is a wonder ,  if you talk of a wonder . 	this is a miracle ,  if you talk of miracles . 
and so it is . 	It is . 
I wonder what it bodes . 	I wonder what it means . 
marry ,  peace it bodes ,  and love ,  and quiet life ,  And awful rule ,  and right supremacy ,  And ,  to be short ,  what not that’s sweet and happy ? 	It means peace and love and a quiet life ,  supremacy based on reverence and profound respect ,  and—not to go on and on about it—everything that’s sweet and happy . 
now ,  fair befall thee ,  good Petruchio ! 	may good fortune come to you ,  good Petruchio ! 
the wager thou hast won ,  and I will add Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns ,  Another dowry to another daughter ,  For she is changed as she had never been . 	you’ve won the wager ,  and I will add twenty thousand crowns to what they owe you . 
see where she comes and brings your froward wives As prisoners to her womanly persuasion . — Katherine ,  that cap of yours becomes you not . 	look ,  here she comes ,  with your ungovernable wives in tow ,  like prisoners of her womanly persuasion . —Katherine ,  that cap of yours doesn’t look good on you . 
off with that bauble ,  throw it underfoot . 	take it off and throw it on the ground . 
lord ,  let me never have a cause to sigh ,  Till I be brought to such a silly pass ! 	lord ,  may I never see a day of trouble until the day I let someone treat me like that . 
fie ! 	for shame ! 
what a foolish duty call you this ? 	what kind of loyalty is this ? 
I would your duty were as foolish too . 	I wish your loyalty were as foolish . 
the wisdom of your duty ,  fair Bianca ,  Hath cost me an hundred crowns since suppertime . 	the wisdom of your loyalty ,  fair Bianca ,  has cost me a hundred crowns since dinner . 
the more fool you for laying on my duty . 	the more fool you for betting on my loyalty . 
we will have no telling . 	there will be no lecture . 
she shall not . 	she shall not . 
I say she shall . —And first begin with her . 	I say she shall . —And first begin with her . 
fie ,  fie ! 	girls ,  girls ! 
unknit that threat'ning unkind brow And dart not scornful glances from those eyes To wound thy lord ,  thy king ,  thy governor . 	this disrespectful stance toward the man who is your lord ,  your king ,  your governor tarnishes your beauty the way the frosts of winter blights the land . 
such duty as the subject owes the prince ,  Even such a woman oweth to her husband . 	a woman owes her husband the same loyalty a subject owes his king . 
and when she is froward ,  peevish ,  sullen ,  sour ,  And not obedient to his honest will ,  What is she but a foul contending rebel And graceless traitor to her loving lord ? 	and when she is peevish and perverse ,  sullen ,  sour ,  and disobedient to his honest wishes ,  what is she but a loathsome ,  warlike rebel and an ungrateful traitor to her loving lord ? 
I am ashamed that women are so simple To offer war where they should kneel for peace; Or seek for rule ,  supremacy and sway When they are bound to serve ,  love ,  and obey . 	I am ashamed that women are so foolish as to declare war when they should plead on their knees for peace ,  that they seek authority ,  supremacy ,  and power when they are under an obligation to serve ,  love ,  and obey . 
why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth ,  Unapt to toil and trouble in the world ,  But that our soft conditions and our hearts Should well agree with our external parts ? 	why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth ,  unfit for toil and trouble in the world ,  if not so that our soft qualities and our hearts should agree with our external parts ? 
come ,  come ,  you froward and unable worms ! 	come ,  come ,  you weak ,  ungovernable worms ! 
my mind hath been as big as one of yours ,  My heart as great ,  my reason haply more ,  To bandy word for word and frown for frown . 	my spirit has been as proud as each of yours ,  my courage as great ,  and my reason perhaps even better suited to bandy words back and forth and exchange frown for frown . 
but now I see our lances are but straws ,  Our strength as weak ,  our weakness past compare ,  That seeming to be most which we indeed least are . 	but now I see our weapons are like straws ,  our strength like a straw’s weakness ,  and our weakness past comparison ,  so that we seem to be the thing we most are not . 
come on and kiss me ,  Kate . 	come on and kiss me ,  Kate . 
tis a good hearing when children are toward . 	It’s nice to see children playing well together . 
but a harsh hearing when women are froward . 	but not so nice when women misbehave . 
come ,  Kate ,  we’ll to bed . 	come ,  Kate ,  let’s go to bed . 
we three are married ,  but you two are sped . 	we three are married ,  but you two are defeated . 
tis a wonder ,  by your leave ,  she will be tamed so . 	It’s amazing ,  if I may say so ,  that she let herself be tamed . 
madam wife ,  they say that I have dreamed And slept above some fifteen year or more . 	madam wife ,  they say I’ve been dreaming or asleep for more than fifteen years . 
ay ,  and the time seems thirty unto me ,  Being all this time abandoned from your bed . 	yes ,  and it seemed twice as long to me ,  having been kept from your bed that whole time . 
tis much . —Servants ,  leave me and her alone . 	that’s too long . —Servants ,  leave her and me alone . 
madam ,  undress you and come now to bed . 	now ,  madam ,  undress and come to bed . 
thrice noble lord ,  let me entreat of you To pardon me yet for a night or two ,  Or if not so ,  until the sun be set . 	thrice noble lord ,  I beg you to excuse me for another night or two—or at least until nightfall . 
for your physicians have expressly charged ,  In peril to incur your former malady ,  That I should yet absent me from your bed . 	your doctors have expressly forbidden me to sleep with you ,  as there’s a risk that you might have a relapse . 
I hope this reason stands for my excuse . 	I hope this explanation will stand as my excuse . 
ay ,  it stands so that I may hardly tarry so long . 	I’m not sure I can wait that long . 
but I would be loath to fall into my dreams again . 	still ,  I’d hate to see my former dreams return . 
your Honor’s players ,  hearing your amendment ,  Are come to play a pleasant comedy ,  For so your doctors hold it very meet ,  Seeing too much sadness hath congealed your blood ,  And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy . 	so I  Your Honor’s actors ,  hearing of your recovery ,  have come to perform a pleasing comedy for you—and your doctors approve wholeheartedly . 
therefore they thought it good you hear a play And frame your mind to mirth and merriment ,  Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life . 	so they think it’s a good idea for you to watch a play and direct your thoughts toward laughter and merriment—two strong preventive medicines that foster long life . 
let them play it . 	okay ,  bring on the play . 
what ,  household stuff ? 	what ,  like stuff from a house ? 
It is a kind of history . 	no ,  it’s a story . 
well ,  we’ll see ’t . 	well ,  let’s watch it . 
we shall ne'er be younger . 	we’re not getting any younger . 
pisa ,  renownèd for grave citizens ,  Gave me my being and my father first ,  A merchant of great traffic through the world ,  Vincentio ,  come of the Bentivolii . 	I was born in Pisa ,  famous for its serious citizens ,  like my father before me; my father ,  Vincentio ,  a successful ,  world - traveled merchant ,  was one of the
I’ll pheeze you ,  in faith . 	I’ll fix you ,  I swear . 
a pair of stocks ,  you rogue ! 	you thug ! 
y'are a baggage ,  the Slys are no rogues . 	read your history ! 
therefore  You will not pay for the glasses you have burst ? 	we You won’t pay for the glasses you smashed ? 
no ,  not a denier . 	no ,  not a penny . 
go by ,  Saint Jeronimy . 	get out of my face . 
go to thy cold bed and warm thee . 	go play with yourself . 
I know my remedy . 	I know my rights . 
I’ll not budge an inch ,  boy . 	I’m not moving an inch ,  pal . 
let him come ,  and kindly . 	let them come—I don’t care . 
gramercies ,  Tranio ,  well dost thou advise . 	that’s good advice . 
but stay awhile . 	wait ! 
what company is this ? 	who are all these people ? 
master ,  some show to welcome us to town . 	maybe it’s a parade to welcome us to town ,  master . 
I' faith ,  sir ,  you shall never need to fear . 	don’t worry ,  I couldn’t care less . 
but if it were ,  doubt not her care should be To comb your noddle with a three - legged stool And paint your face and use you like a fool . 	the only possible interest I could take in you would be to hit you on the head with a stool ,  paint your face with blood ,  and make a fool out of you . 
from all such devils ,  good Lord ,  deliver us ! 	may the good Lord keep me safe from all women like her ! 
and me too ,  good Lord ! 	me too ,  Lord ! 
maid’s mild behavior and sobriety . 	what a spoiled little brat . 
sister ,  content you in my discontent . — Sir ,  to your pleasure humbly I subscribe . 	sister ,  be happy in my unhappiness . —Sir ,  I will humbly obey you . 
my books and instruments shall be my company ,  On them to look and practice by myself . 	I’ll take comfort in my books and music ,  reading and practicing my instruments . 
hark ,  Tranio ! 	listen Tranio ! 
signior Baptista ,  will you be so strange ? 	that’s  Signior Baptista ,  will you really be this cruel ? 
why will you mew her up ,  Signior Baptista ,  for this fiend of hell And make her bear the penance of her tongue ? 	why are you locking her away because of this fiend from hell ,  Signor Baptista ? 
and for I know she taketh most delight In music ,  instruments ,  and poetry ,  Schoolmasters will I keep within my house ,  Fit to instruct her youth . 	and because I know how fond she is of music ,  playing her instruments ,  and poetry ,  I plan to hire live - in tutors for her . 
and so farewell . —Katherina ,  you may stay ,  For I have more to commune with Bianca . 	katherina ,  you may stay . 
why ,  and I trust I may go too ,  may I not ? 	I don’t think so ! 
what ,  shall I be appointed hours as though ,  belike ,  I knew not what to take and what to leave ,  ha ? 	am I to be dictated to ,  like a child ? 
you may go to the devil’s dam ! 	you can go straight to hell ! 
farewell . 	so long . 
though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked parle ,  know now upon advice ,  it toucheth us both ,  that we may yet again have access to our fair mistress and be happy rivals in Bianca’s love ,  to labor and effect one thing specially . 	that is ,  if we ever want to return to being rivals for Bianca’s love . 
what’s that ,  I pray ? 	and that would be— ? 
marry ,  sir ,  to get a husband for her sister . 	to find a husband for her sister . 
a husband ? 	a husband ? 
a devil ! 	you mean a devil ! 
I say a husband . 	I mean a husband . 
I say a devil . 	I say a devil . 
think’st thou ,  Hortensio ,  though her father be very rich ,  any man is so very a fool to be married to hell ? 	do you really think there’s a man fool enough to marry into hell—however rich the father is ? 
tush ,  Gremio . 	oh ,  I don’t know . 
though it pass your patience and mine to endure her loud alarums ,  why ,  man ,  there be good fellows in the world ,  an a man could light on them ,  would take her with all faults ,  and money enough . 	guys who’d take her with all her faults ,  provided there were enough money involved . 
I cannot tell . 	I don’t know . 
how say you ,  Signior Gremio ? 	what do you say ,  Signior Gremio ? 
I am agreed ,  and would I had given him the best horse inv Padua to begin his wooing that would thoroughly woo her ,  wed her ,  and bed her ,  and rid the house of her ! 	this imaginary suitor for Katherina—I’d buy him the best horse in Padua if he’d get here quickly ,  woo her ,  marry her ,  take her to bed ,  and rid the house of her . 
come on . 	let’s go . 
I pray ,  sir ,  tell me ,  is it possible That love should of a sudden take such hold ? 	sir ,  is it possible that a person could fall in love so suddenly ? 
o Tranio ,  till I found it to be true ,  I never thought it possible or likely . 	oh ,  Tranio ,  until it happened to me ,  I never would have thought it possible . 
affection is not rated from the heart . 	the heart won’t be reasoned with . 
If love have touched you ,  naught remains but so:   Gramercies ,  lad ,  go forward . 	If love has touched you ,  love has touched you—end of story . 
this contents . 	yes ,  you’re right . 
the rest will comfort ,  for thy counsel’s sound . 	please go on . 
master ,  you looked so longly on the maid ,  Perhaps you marked not what’s the pith of all . 	I feel better already ,  and I know there’s more good advice where that came from . 
oh yes ,  I saw sweet beauty in her face Such as the daughter of Agenor had ,  That made great Jove to humble him to her hand When with his knees he kissed the Cretan strand . 	master ,  you were so focused on the girl herself ,  I wonder if you missed the main point here . 
saw you no more ? 	oh no ! 
tranio ,  I saw her coral lips to move And with her breath she did perfume the air . 	tranio ,  I saw her coral - pink lips move and perfume the air with her breath . 
ah ,  Tranio ,  what a cruel father’s he ! 	oh ,  Tranio ,  what a cruel father he is . 
but art thou not advised ,  he took some care To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her ? 	still ,  did you notice how ready he was to hire good tutors for her ? 
ay ,  marry ,  am I ,  sir; and now ’tis plotted ! 	I did—and now I’ve got it ! 
I have it ,  Tranio ! 	tranio ,  I think I’ve got it ! 
master ,  for my hand ,  Both our inventions meet and jump in one . 	I’ll bet we’re both thinking the same thing ,  master . 
tell me thine first . 	tell me your idea first . 
you will be schoolmaster And undertake the teaching of the maid: That’s your device . 	you will pretend to be a schoolmaster and offer to teach the girl . 
It is . 	It is . 
may it be done ? 	do you think it would work ? 
not possible . 	no ,  not a chance . 
tis hatched ,  and shall be so . 	enough ! 
when Biondello comes ,  he waits on thee ,  But I will charm him first to keep his tongue . 	It’s obvious:  Here comes Biondello . 
where have I been ? 	where have you been ,  boy ? 
nay ,  how now ,  where are you ? 	where have  Come here ,  boy . 
sirrah ,  come hither: ’tis no time to jest ,  And therefore frame your manners to the time . 	It’s no time for jokes: sober up . 
you understand me ? 	understand ? 
aye ,  sir . 	of course ,  sir . 
and not a jot of  “ Tranio ”  in your mouth . 	and you’re not to utter a syllable of Tranio’s name . 
would I were so too . 	wish I could say the same . 
so could I ,  faith ,  boy ,  to have the next wish after ,  That Lucentio indeed had Baptista’s youngest daughter . 	I’d second your wish if it automatically meant that Lucentio could have Baptista’s youngest daughter . 
but ,  sirrah ,  not for my sake ,  but your master’s ,  I advise You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies . 	this is for your master’s sake ,  not mine . 
when I am alone ,  why then I am Tranio; But in all places else ,  your master Lucentio . 	when we’re by ourselves you can call me  “ Tranio .  ”  Everywhere else ,  address me as your master Lucentio . 
tranio ,  let’s go . 	tranio ,  let’s go . 
one thing more rests ,  that thyself execute ,  to make one among these wooers . 	one last thing ,  and this is up to you . 
If thou ask me why ,  sufficeth my reasons are both good and weighty . 	you’ll have to woo Bianca like the rest . 
my lord ,  you nod . 	don’t ask why . 
you do not mind the play . 	no ,  no . 
a good matter ,  surely . 	very impressive . 
comes there any more of it ? 	Is there any more ,  or is that it ? 
tis a very excellent piece of work ,  madam lady . 	and what an excellent piece of work it is ,  too ,  madam lady ! 
would ’twere done . 	I wish it were over . 
huntsman ,  I charge thee ,  tender well my hounds . 	huntsman ,  look after my hounds . 
breathe Merriman ,  the poor cur is embossed ,  And couple Clowder with the deep - mouthed brach . 	let Merriman catch his breath—the poor dog’s foaming at the mouth . 
why ,  Belman is as good as he ,  my lord . 	I think Belman is just as good ,  my lord . 
trust me ,  I take him for the better dog . 	I swear he’s the better dog . 
thou art a fool . 	you’re a fool . 
If Echo were as fleet ,  I would esteem him worth a dozen such . 	If Echo were as fast ,  he would be worth a dozen like Belman . 
but sup them well and look unto them all . 	but give them all a good dinner and look after them well . 
tomorrow I intend to hunt again . 	I’ll go hunting again tomorrow ,  I think . 
I will ,  my lord . 	I will ,  my lord . 
what’s here ? 	what’s this ? 
one dead ,  or drunk ? 	a drunkard or a corpse ? 
see ,  doth he breathe ? 	check and see if he’s breathing . 
he breathes ,  my lord . 	he is ,  my lord . 
were he not warmed with ale ,  This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly . 	but this would be too cold a place to sleep if he hadn’t warmed himself with ale . 
grim death ,  how foul and loathsome is thine image ! 	alas ,  grim death ,  how vile and ugly your near - twin ,  sleep ,  is ! 
sirs ,  I will practice on this drunken man . 	what do you think ? 
verona ,  for a while I take my leave ,  To see my friends in Padua ,  but of all My best belovèd and approvèd friend ,  Hortensio . 	I’m off to visit my friends in Padua—particularly my best friend Hortensio . 
and I trow this is his house . 	and I think this is his house . 
here ,  sirrah Grumio . 	here ,  you there ,  Grumio . 
knock ,  I say . 	knock . 
knock ,  sir ? 	knock ,  sir ? 
whom should I knock ? 	whom should I knock ? 
Is there any man has rebused your Worship ? 	has anyone offended your Worship ? 
knock you here ,  sir ? 	moron ! 
villain ,  I say ,  knock me at this gate And rap me well ,  or I’ll knock your knave’s pate . 	I’m telling you to make a fist and pound . 
my master is grown quarrelsome . 	my master is being difficult . 
how now ,  what’s the matter ? 	say ,  what’s the trouble ? 
my old friend Grumio and my good friend Petruchio ? 	If it isn’t my old friend Grumio—and my dear friend Petruchio ! 
how do you all at Verona ? 	how’s everyone in Verona ? 
signior Hortensio ,  come you to part the fray ? 	hortensio ,  have you come to break up the fight ? 
nay ,  ’tis no matter ,  sir ,  what he 'leges in Latin . 	I don’t care what he told you in Latin . 
I bade the rascal knock upon your gate And could not get him for my heart to do it . 	I told him to knock at your gate and for the life of me could not get him to do it . 
knock at the gate ? 	knock at the gate ? 
o heavens ! 	oh ,  for Pete’s sake ! 
spake you not these words plain:  “ Sirrah ,  knock me here ,  rap me here ,  knock me well ,  and knock me soundly ”  ? 	didn’t you clearly say  “ Knock ,  ”   “ pound ,  ”  and  “ put your fists to work ”  ? 
and come you now with  “ knocking at the gate ”  ? 	now you say it was  “ Knock at the gate ”  ? 
petruchio ,  patience . 	I’m warning you . 
I am Grumio’s pledge . 	easy ,  Petruchio . 
why ,  this' a heavy chance ’twixt him and you ,  Your ancient ,  trusty ,  pleasant servant Grumio . 	I’ll vouch for Grumio . 
and tell me now ,  sweet friend ,  what happy gale Blows you to Padua here from old Verona ? 	now ,  my dear friend ,  what lucky wind blows you in from Verona ? 
such wind as scatters young men through the world To seek their fortunes farther than at home ,  Where small experience grows . 	the wind that scatters young men throughout the world ,  encouraging them to seek their fortunes some place other than home ,  where there’s little to be found in the way of experience . 
crowns in my purse I have and goods at home ,  And so am come abroad to see the world . 	I have money in my purse and property at home ,  so I’m off to see the world . 
thou’dst thank me but a little for my counsel; And yet I’ll promise thee she shall be rich ,  And very rich . 	I doubt you’d thank me in the end ,  but she’s rich ,  all right ,  very rich . 
but thou'rt too much my friend ,  And I’ll not wish thee to her . 	but you’re too good a friend for me to wish her on you . 
signior Hortensio ,  ’twixt such friends as we Few words suffice . 	hortensio ,  good friends like us can get by on a few words . 
I can ,  Petruchio ,  help thee to a wife With wealth enough ,  and young and beauteous ,  Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman . 	I can help you find a wife who’s rich ,  young ,  beautiful ,  and reared in a manner fit for a gentlewoman . 
her only fault ,  and that is faults enough ,  Is that she is intolerable curst ,  And shrewd and froward ,  so beyond all measure That ,  were my state far worser than it is ,  I would not wed her for a mine of gold . 	her only flaw—and it’s a big one—is that she’s unbearable ,  a total witch ,  so much so that I wouldn’t think of marrying her myself ,  not even if I were in a worse fix than I am ,  not for a whole goldmine . 
hortensio ,  peace . 	hush ,  Hortensio . 
thou know’st not gold’s effect . 	you don’t know what money can buy . 
her father is Baptista Minola ,  An affable and courteous gentleman . 	her father is Baptista Minola ,  a pleasant and courteous gentleman . 
her name is Katherina Minola ,  Renowned in Padua for her scolding tongue . 	her name is Katherina Minola ,  famous throughout Padua for her scolding tongue . 
I know her father ,  though I know not her ,  And he knew my deceasèd father well . 	I don’t know her ,  but I know her father and he knew mine well . 
I will not sleep ,  Hortensio ,  till I see her ,  And therefore let me be thus bold with you To give you over at this first encounter ,  Unless you will accompany me thither . 	I won’t sleep until I see her ,  Hortensio . 
tarry ,  Petruchio ,  I must go with thee ,  For in Baptista’s keep my treasure is . 	wait ,  Petruchio ,  I should go with you . 
he hath the jewel of my life in hold ,  His youngest daughter ,  beautiful Bianca ,  And her withholds from me and other more ,  Suitors to her and rivals in my love ,  Supposing it a thing impossible ,  For those defects I have before rehearsed ,  That ever Katherina will be wooed . 	his youngest daughter ,  the beautiful Bianca ,  is the jewel of my life ,  and he keeps her hidden away from me and other rivals for her hand . 
katherine the curst !  ”  A title for a maid of all titles the worst . 	katherine the shrew !  ”  That’s the worst thing you can call a young woman . 
now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace ,  And offer me disguised in sober robes To old Baptista as a schoolmaster Well seen in music ,  to instruct Bianca ,  That so I may ,  by this device at least ,  Have leave and leisure to make love to her And ,  unsuspected ,  court her by herself . 	now my friend Petruchio will help me out ,  presenting me to old Baptista as a schoolmaster for Bianca well - versed in music . 
here’s no knavery ! 	I’ll disguise myself in somber robes . 
master ,  master ,  look about you . 	oh ,   Master ,  master ,  look ! 
who goes there ,  ha ? 	who are these people ? 
peace ,  Grumio . 	hush ,  Grumio . 
It is the rival of my love . 	It is my rival for Bianca . 
petruchio ,  stand by a while . 	petruchio ,  let’s stand over here awhile . 
o this learning ,  what a thing it is ! 	oh ,  what an excellent thing this learning is ! 
and you are well met ,  Signior Hortensio . 	good to see you ,  Signior Hortensio . 
trow you whither I am going ? 	do you know where I’m going ? 
to Baptista Minola . 	to Baptista Minola’s house . 
tis well . 	that’s great . 
and I have met a gentleman Hath promised me to help me to another ,  A fine musician to instruct our mistress . 	and I have met a gentleman who promises to help me find a good music tutor to instruct our lady love . 
gremio ,  ’tis now no time to vent our love . 	gremio ,  this is no time to compete over how deeply we love Bianca . 
so said ,  so done ,  is well . 	that’s good ,  if he’ll really do it . 
hortensio ,  have you told him all her faults ? 	have you told him all her faults ,  Hortensio ? 
I know she is an irksome brawling scold . 	I know she is a hateful ,  brawling scold . 
If that be all ,  masters ,  I hear no harm . 	If that’s all ,  gentlemen ,  I see no problem . 
no ? 	no ? 
say’st me so ,  friend ? 	tell me ,  friend . 
what countryman ? 	where are you from ? 
my father dead ,  my fortune lives for me . 	my father’s dead ,  and his fortune is mine now . 
and I do hope good days and long to see . 	I hope to see good days—and many of them . 
o sir ,  such a life with such a wife were strange ! 	sir ,  such a life with such a wife is unlikely ! 
but if you have a stomach ,  to ’t ,  i' God’s name: You shall have me assisting you in all . 	but if you have the stomach for it ,  you’ll have all the help from me you need . 
but will you woo this wildcat ? 	do you really mean to go after this wildcat ? 
why came I hither but to that intent ? 	why did I come here if not for that ? 
have I not heard the sea ,  puffed up with winds ,  Rage like an angry boar chafèd with sweat ? 	I ,  who have survived storms at sea where the winds raged like wild animals ? 
have I not heard great ordnance in the field ,  And heaven’s artillery thunder in the skies ? 	I ,  who have heard the rumble of guns in battle—and thunder in the sky (heaven’s version of artillery) . 
hortensio ,  hark . 	listen ,  Hortensio . 
and so we will ,  provided that he win her . 	absolutely—so long as he gets the girl . 
I would I were as sure of a good dinner . 	I wish I could be as certain of a good dinner . 
he that has the two fair daughters—is ’t he you mean ? 	Is that the man you want ? 
not her that chides ,  sir ,  at any hand ,  I pray . 	but not the woman who scolds ,  anyway ,  I hope . 
sir ,  a word ere you go . 	sir ,  a word before you go . 
are you a suitor to the maid you talk of ,  yea or no ? 	are you a suitor to the girl we speak of ,  yes or no ? 
an if I be ,  sir ,  is it any offense ? 	what if I am ? 
no ,  if without more words you will get you hence . 	not if you go away ,  there isn’t . 
for this reason ,  if you’ll know: That she’s the choice love of Signior Gremio . 	because ,  if you must know ,  she’s been chosen by Signior Gremio . 
that she’s the chosen of Signior Hortensio . 	because she’s been chosen by Signior Hortensio . 
softly ,  my masters . 	wait a minute ,  gentlemen . 
If you be gentlemen ,  Do me this right: hear me with patience . 	be good enough to hear me out . 
baptista is a noble gentleman ,  To whom my father is not all unknown ,  And were his daughter fairer than she is ,  She may more suitors have ,  and me for one . 	baptista is a noble gentleman—one to whom my father is not completely unknown—and lovely as his daughter is ,  she is entitled to any number of suitors—myself among them . 
believe me ,  lord ,  I think he cannot choose . 	I don’t think he’d have any choice ,  my lord . 
It would seem strange unto him when he waked . 	when he woke ,  he wouldn’t know where he was . 
even as a flatt'ring dream or worthless fancy . 	It would be just like a nice daydream or fantasy . 
then take him up and manage well the jest . 	well ,  take him on up and we’ll try to pull it off . 
carry him gently to my fairest chamber And hang it round with all my wanton pictures . 	carry him to my best room—gently ,  so he doesn’t wake—and hang all my erotic paintings around him . 
balm his foul head in warm distilled waters And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet . 	bathe his filthy head with warm ,  scented water . 
my lord ,  I warrant you we will play our part As he shall think by our true diligence He is no less than what we say he is . 	convince him that he has been out of his mind—and when he says he’s out of his mind  My lord ,  I promise we will play our parts so skillfully that he will believe everything we tell him . 
fair Leda’s daughter had a thousand wooers; Then well one more may fair Bianca have . 	the beautiful Helen of Troy had a thousand suitors . 
this gentleman will out - talk us all . 	this fellow will out - talk us all . 
hortensio ,  to what end are all these words ? 	hortensio ,  what’s all this about ? 
yea ,  leave that labor to great Hercules ,  And let it be more than Alcides' twelve . 	yes ,  leave that labor to great Hercules—it’s worse than the previous twelve put together . 
sir ,  you say well ,  and well you do conceive . 	sir ,  that’s well said and well thought out . 
o excellent motion ! 	an excellent motion . 
fellows ,  let’s be gone . 	let’s go . 
the motion’s good indeed and be it so . — Petruchio ,  I shall be your	I second that
good sister ,  wrong me not nor wrong yourself ,  To make a bondmaid and a slave of me . 	dear sister ,  it’s unfair to me—and unfair to yourself—to turn me into a slave . 
that I disdain . 	that I won’t stand for . 
see thou dissemble not . 	and don’t lie . 
minion ,  thou liest . 	you lying brat . 
Is ’t not Hortensio ? 	It’s Hortensio ,  isn’t it ? 
oh ,  then belike you fancy riches more . 	oh ,  I see . 
you will have Gremio to keep you fair . 	you’ll live in luxury with Gremio . 
Is it for him you do envy me so ? 	Is it because of
what ,  in my sight ? —Bianca ,  get thee in . 	what ,  in my presence ? 
what ,  will you not suffer me ? 	you mean you don’t even want to hear my side ? 
talk not to me . 	don’t talk to me . 
but who comes here ? 	now what ? 
good morrow ,  neighbor Baptista . 	good morning ,  neighbor Baptista . 
good morrow ,  neighbor Gremio . —God save you ,  gentlemen ! 	good morning ,  neighbor Gremio . 
and you ,  good sir . 	and to you ,  good sir . 
pray ,  have you not a daughter Called Katherina ,  fair and virtuous ? 	tell me ,  don’t you have a virtuous and lovely daughter named Katherina ? 
I have a daughter ,  sir ,  called Katherina . 	I have a daughter named Katherina ,  sir . 
you wrong me ,  Signior Gremio . 	please ,  Signior Gremio . 
give me leave . — I am a gentleman of Verona ,  sir ,  That hearing of her beauty and her wit ,  Her affability and bashful modesty ,  Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior ,  Am bold to show myself a forward guest Within your house ,  to make mine eye the witness Of that report which I so oft have heard . 	allow me to continue . —I am a gentleman of Verona ,  sir ,  who ,  hearing of your daughter’s beauty and wit ,  her friendly disposition and bashful modesty ,  her uncommon virtues and her mild behavior ,  have taken the liberty of presenting myself as a guest at your house in the hope of seeing for myself if what I’ve heard is true . 
you’re welcome ,  sir ,  and he for your good sake . 	you and he are both welcome ,  sir . 
but for my daughter Katherine ,  this I know ,  She is not for your turn ,  the more my grief . 	as for my daughter Katherine ,  this much I know: she’s not for you—more’s the pity . 
I see you do not mean to part with her ,  Or else you like not of my company . 	I see you don’t intend to part with her—or perhaps you don’t like my company . 
mistake me not . 	don’t misunderstand me ,  sir . 
I speak but as I find . 	I’m just stating the facts as I see them . 
whence are you ,  sir ? 	where are you from ? 
what may I call your name ? 	what’s your name ? 
petruchio is my name ,  Antonio’s son ,  A man well known throughout all Italy . 	my name is Petruchio ,  son of Antonio ,  a man well known throughout Italy . 
I know him well . 	I know him well . 
you are welcome for his sake . 	you are welcome for his sake . 
oh ,  pardon me ,  Signior Gremio ,  I would fain be doing . 	you’re  Forgive me ,  Signior Gremio ,  but I’m anxious to get things moving . 
I doubt it not ,  sir ,  but you will curse your wooing . — Neighbor ,  this is a gift very grateful ,  I am sure of it . 	no doubt ,  but you may be going about it the wrong way—Neighbor ,  this gift is very gracious ,  I’m sure . 
to express the like kindness ,  myself ,  that have been more kindly beholding to you than any ,  freely give unto you this young scholar	I myself ,  who am more indebted to you than anyone ,  have brought you this young scholar
a thousand thanks ,  Signior Gremio . 	many thanks ,  Signior Gremio . 
welcome ,  good Cambio . 	welcome ,  good Cambio . 
lucentio is your name . 	your name is Lucentio ,  you say . 
of whence ,  I pray ? 	of what city ,  may I ask ? 
a mighty man of Pisa . 	a man of great influence . 
by report I know him well . 	I know him well by reputation . 
you are very welcome ,  sir . 	you are very welcome here ,  sir . 
we will go walk a little in the orchard ,  And then to dinner . 	let’s take a little walk in the orchard before dinner . 
you are passing welcome ,  And so I pray you all to think yourselves . 	you are all most welcome here; please make yourselves at home . 
signior Baptista ,  my business asketh haste ,  And every day I cannot come to woo . 	signior Baptista ,  I’m actually in a bit of a hurry . 
you knew my father well ,  and in him me ,  Left solely heir to all his lands and goods ,  Which I have bettered rather than decreased . 	you knew my father well; therefore ,  you know me ,  the sole heir to all his property and possessions ,  which I have added to rather than depleted . 
then tell me ,  if I get your daughter’s love ,  What dowry shall I have with her to wife ? 	so ,  tell me ,  assuming I win your daughter’s love ,  what dowry would she bring to the marriage ? 
after my death ,  the one half of my lands ,  And ,  in possession ,  twenty thousand crowns . 	twenty thousand crowns now ,  and half my lands after my death . 
let specialties be therefore drawn between us ,  That covenants may be kept on either hand . 	let’s have explicit contracts drawn up to ensure that both sides keep their promises . 
ay ,  when the special thing is well obtained ,  That is ,  her love ,  for that is all in all . 	that counts for everything . 
why ,  that is nothing . 	oh ,  that’s nothing ,  believe me ,  sir . 
for I tell you ,  father ,  I am as peremptory as she proud - minded; And where two raging fires meet together ,  They do consume the thing that feeds their fury . 	I’m as commanding as she is proud ,  and when two raging fires meet ,  they end up consuming the very thing that kindled them . 
so I to her and so she yields to me ,  For I am rough and woo not like a babe . 	I’m that great gust to her fire . 
well mayst thou woo ,  and happy be thy speed . 	well ,  good luck ! 
but be thou armed for some unhappy words . 	but prepare yourself for some unpleasantness . 
ay ,  to the proof ,  as mountains are for winds ,  That shakes not ,  though they blow perpetually . 	mountains don’t tremble ,  however much the wind may blow ! 
how now ,  my friend ,  why dost thou look so pale ? 	why so pale ,  my friend ? 
what ,  will my daughter prove a good musician ? 	will my daughter be a good musician ,  do you think ? 
I think she’ll sooner prove a soldier . 	I think she’ll be a better soldier . 
why ,  then thou canst not break her to the lute ? 	you don’t think you can teach her ? 
I’ll fume with them !  ”  And with that word she struck me on the head ,  And through the instrument my pate made way , 	I’ll give you frets !  ”  With that ,  she clobbers me with the lute so that my head goes right through , 
now ,  by the world ,  it is a lusty wench . 	I like this girl ! 
I love her ten times more than e'er I did . 	now I want her more than ever . 
oh ,  how I long to have some chat with her ! 	I can’t wait to meet her ! 
I pray you do . 	please do . 
I’ll attend her here And woo her with some spirit when she comes . 	I’ll wait for her here and when she comes I’ll take a novel approach with her . 
say that she rail; why then I’ll tell her plain She sings as sweetly as a nightingale . 	If she rants ,  I’ll tell her that she sings as sweetly as a nightingale . 
say that she frown; I’ll say she looks as clear As morning roses newly washed with dew . 	If she glares ,  I’ll say her brow is as clear as roses newly washed with morning dew . 
say she be mute and will not speak a word; Then I’ll commend her volubility ,  And say she uttereth piercing eloquence . 	If she is silent and won’t speak at all ,  I’ll praise her chattiness and say she speaks with piercing eloquence . 
If she do bid me pack ,  I’ll give her thanks ,  As though she bid me stay by her a week . 	If she orders me to go ,  I’ll thank her warmly as if she’d just offered to put me up for a week . 
If she deny to wed ,  I’ll crave the day When I shall ask the banns and when be marrièd . 	If she refuses my proposal ,  I’ll tell her how much I’m looking forward to the announcement and the wedding . 
take him up gently ,  and to bed with him ,  And each one to his office when he wakes . 	carry him gently to bed ,  and every man be ready at his post when he awakes . 
sirrah ,  go see what trumpet ’tis that sounds . 	go ,  lad ,  and find out what the trumpet’s sounding for . 
belike some noble gentleman that means ,  Traveling some journey ,  to repose him here . 	It’s probably some noble gentleman stopping off in mid - journey ,  thinking to spend the night here . 
an’t please your Honor ,  players That offer service to your Lordship . 	sir ,  it’s a troupe of actors who want to perform for your Lordship . 
bid them come near . 	have them come in . 
now ,  fellows ,  you are welcome . 	you are welcome here ,  my friends . 
we thank your Honor . 	we thank your Honor . 
do you intend to stay with me tonight ? 	were you thinking of spending the night here ? 
so please your Lordship to accept our duty . 	yes ,  if that would be all right with your Lordship . 
with all my heart . 	by all means . 
this fellow I remember Since once he played a farmer’s eldest son . 	I remember this fellow—he once played the eldest son of a farmer . 
twas where you wooed the gentlewoman so well . 	It was the play in which you wooed the gentlewoman so successfully . 
I have forgot your name ,  but sure that part Was aptly fitted and naturally performed . 	I have forgotten your name ,  but you were well cast in the role and played it convincingly . 
good morrow ,  Kate—for that’s your name ,  I hear . 	good morning ,  Kate ,  for I hear that’s what you’re called . 
well have you heard ,  but something hard of hearing . 	Is that what you’ve heard ? 
moved ,  ”  in good time . 	driven ?  ”  Really ? 
I knew you at the first You were a moveable . 	I had you figured for a piece of furniture . 
why ,  what’s a moveable ? 	what do you mean by  “ furniture ”  ? 
a joint stool . 	a nice stool . 
thou hast hit it . 	you’re right ,  actually . 
come ,  sit on me . 	come sit on me . 
asses are made to bear ,  and so are you . 	asses are made for bearing ,  and so are you . 
women are made to bear ,  and so are you . 	women are made for
no such jade as you ,  if me you mean . 	not by the likes of you ! 
alas ,  good Kate ,  I will not burden thee ,  For knowing thee to be but young and light— Too light for such a swain as you to catch ,  And yet as heavy as my weight should be . 	I know how  Too light for a lout like you to catch—though no lighter than I should be . 
should be ” —should buzz ! 	should be ? 
If I be waspish ,  best beware my sting . 	If I’m a wasp ,  look out for my stinger . 
my remedy is then to pluck it out . 	all I have to do is remove it . 
ay ,  if the fool could find it where it lies . 	true ,  if a fool such as yourself could find it . 
who knows not where a wasp does wear his sting ? 	everyone knows where a wasp wears its stinger . 
In his tail . 	In its tail . 
In his tongue . 	no ,  in its tongue . 
whose tongue ? 	whose tongue ? 
yours ,  if you talk of tales . 	yours ,  if we’re talking about  I’m leaving . 
what ,  with my tongue in your tail ? 	you’re leaving with my tongue in your tail ? 
nay ,  come again ,  Good Kate . 	no ,  come back ,  Kate . 
that I’ll try . 	we’ll see about that ! 
I swear I’ll cuff you if you strike again . 	I swear I’ll smack you if you hit me again . 
so may you lose your arms . 	not if you want to keep your arms ! 
no cock of mine . 	It has no fighting spirit . 
nay ,  come ,  Kate ,  come . 	oh ,  come on now ,  Kate . 
you must not look so sour . 	don’t look so sour . 
It is my fashion ,  when I see a crab . 	that’s my way ,  when I see a crab - apple . 
why ,  here’s no crab ,  and therefore look not sour . 	there’s no crab - apple here ,  so don’t look sour . 
there is ,  there is . 	there is a crab - apple here . 
then show it me . 	show me . 
had I a glass ,  I would . 	I would ,  if I had a mirror . 
what ,  you mean my face ? 	what ,  you mean my face looks like a crab - apple ? 
well aimed of such a young one . 	you know ,  you’re right . 
now ,  by Saint George ,  I am too young for you . 	I probably am too young for you . 
yet you are withered . 	maybe ,  but you’re wrinkled all the same . 
tis with cares . 	oh ,  that’s with worry . 
I care not . 	well ,  that doesn’t worry me . 
let me go . 	let me go . 
no ,  not a whit . 	no ,  not a bit . 
I find you passing gentle . 	I find you quite gentle . 
twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen ,  And now I find report a very liar . 	I was told that you were violent ,  proud ,  and sullen . 
thou canst not frown ,  thou canst not look askance ,  Nor bite the lip as angry wenches will ,  Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk . 	you haven’t got it in you to frown or look displeased or bite your lip as angry women do . 
but thou with mildness entertain’st thy wooers ,  With gentle conference ,  soft and affable . 	no ,  you entertain your suitors with mild and gentle conversation ,  quiet and pleasant . 
why does the world report that Kate doth limp ? 	why does the world report that Kate is lame ? 
o slanderous world ! 	the world’s a liar . 
kate like the hazel - twig Is straight and slender and as brown in hue As hazel nuts ,  and sweeter than the kernels . 	kate is as straight and slender as a hazel - twig ,  her hair as brown as hazelnut shells ,  and she herself sweeter than the kernels . 
oh ,  let me see thee walk ! 	take a few steps—I want to see you walk . 
did ever Dian so become a grove As Kate this chamber with her princely gait ? 	did Diana ever beautify a grove as much as Kate beautifies this room with her queenly movements ? 
a witty mother ! 	It’s born of my  A witty mother ! 
witless else her son . 	too bad about the son ! 
am I not wise ? 	am I not wise ? 
for I am he am born to tame you ,  Kate ,  And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate Conformable as other household Kates . 	I’m the man who was born to tame you and change you from a wildcat Kate into a Kate as gentle and domestic as other household Kates . 
I should know that voice . 	I almost recognize that voice . 
It should be—But he is drowned ,  and these are devils . 	It’s—But he’s drowned ,  and these guys are devils . 
oh ,  defend me ! 	oh ,  God help me ! 
four legs and two voices—a most delicate monster . 	four legs and two voices—a very special monster . 
his forward voice now is to speak well of his friend . 	one voice speaks well and talks about his friend . 
his backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract . 	the other voice is harsh and abusive . 
If all the wine in my bottle will recover him ,  I will help his ague . 	If it takes all the wine in my bottle ,  I’ll cure him . 
come . 	come on . 
stephano ! 	cALIBAN  Stephano ! 
doth thy other mouth call me ? 	Is your other mouth calling my name ? 
mercy ,  mercy ! 	mercy ,  mercy ! 
this is a devil ,  and no monster . 	this isn’t a monster ,  it’s a devil . 
I will leave him . 	I’ll leave him alone . 
I have no long spoon . 	I have no interest in getting mixed up with the devil . 
stephano ! 	stephano ! 
If thou beest Stephano ,  touch me and speak to me . 	If you’re Stephano ,  touch me and speak to me . 
for I am Trinculo—be not afeard—thy good friend Trinculo . 	I’m Trinculo—don’t be scared—your good friend Trinculo . 
If thou beest Trinculo ,  come forth . 	If you’re Trinculo ,  then come out . 
I’ll pull thee by the lesser legs . 	I’ll pull on these smaller legs . 
If any be Trinculo’s legs ,  these are they . 	If any legs here are Trinculo’s ,  these are . 
but art thou not drowned ,  Stephano ? 	but aren’t you drowned ,  Stephano ? 
I hope now thou art not drowned . 	I hope you’re not drowned . 
Is the storm overblown ? 	has the storm passed ? 
I hid me under the dead mooncalf’s gaberdine for fear of the storm . 	I hid under this monster’s cloak to get out of the storm . 
and art thou living ,  Stephano ? 	are you really alive ,  Stephano ? 
o Stephano ,  two Neapolitans ’scaped ! 	oh ,  Stephano ,  two men from Naples survived ! 
prithee ,  do not turn me about . 	please stop turning me around . 
my stomach is not constant . 	my stomach’s a little upset . 
swum ashore ,  man ,  like a duck . 	I swam ashore like a duck . 
I can swim like a duck ,  I’ll be sworn . 	I can swim like a duck ,  I swear . 
here ,  kiss the book . 	here , 
o Stephano ,  hast any more of this ? 	oh Stephano ,  do you have any more of that wine ? 
the whole butt ,  man . 	I’ve got the whole barrel ,  man . 
hast thou not dropped from heaven ? 	you come from heaven ,  don’t you ? 
out o' th' moon ,  I do assure thee . 	no ,  from the moon ,  I’m telling you . 
I was the man i' the moon when time was . 	I used to be the man in the moon a long time ago . 
my mistress showed me thee and thy dog and thy bush . 	my mistress showed me you in the moon and your dog and your bush . 
I afeard of him ! 	I can’t believe I was scared of him ! 
a very weak monster . 	a pretty pathetic monster . 
the man i' th' moon ! 	the man in the moon ! 
a most poor credulous monster . —Well drawn ,  monster ,  in good sooth ! 	what a poor ,  gullible monster . —That was a nice big gulp ,  monster ! 
by this light ,  a most perfidious and drunken monster . 	what a lying ,  drunken monster . 
when ’s god’s asleep ,  he’ll rob his bottle . 	when his god falls asleep ,  the monster will snatch his wine bottle . 
come on then . 	come on ,  then . 
down ,  and swear . 	get down and swear it . 
I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy - headed monster . 	I’m going to laugh myself to death over this silly monster . 
a most scurvy monster . 	a rotten ,  foolish monster . 
I could find in my heart to beat him—   But that the poor monster’s in drink . 	I could find it in my heart to beat him— Come on ,  kiss my feet . 
an abominable monster ! 	an awful monster ! 
I’ll show thee the best springs . 	I’ll show you where to get fresh water . 
I’ll pluck thee berries . 	I’ll pick berries for you . 
I’ll fish for thee and get thee wood enough . 	I’ll fish for you and get you plenty of firewood . 
a plague upon the tyrant that I serve ! 	the tyrant I’m serving now can go to hell ! 
a most ridiculous monster ,  to make a wonder of a poor drunkard . 	what a silly monster ,  to think a poor drunk is wonderful . 
I prithee now ,  lead the way without any more talking . — Trinculo ,  the king and all our company else being drowned ,  we will inherit here . —Here ,  bear my bottle . —Fellow Trinculo ,  we’ll fill him by and by again . 	show us the way without further delay . —Trinculo ,  since the king and all our comrades are drowned ,  we’re the heirs of this place . —Here ,  carry my wine bottle . —Trinculo ,  my buddy ,  we’ll get that bottle refilled soon enough . 
a howling monster ,  a drunken monster . 	a loud - mouthed ,  drunken monster . 
o brave monster ! 	good monster ! 
lead the way . 	show us the way . 
now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground: long heath ,  brown furze ,  anything . 	right now I’d give a thousand
some kinds of baseness Are nobly undergone . 	some kinds of lowly activities are done for noble reasons . 
and most poor matters Point to rich ends . 	and you can do poor things that lead to rich results . 
this my mean task Would be as heavy to me as odious ,  but The mistress which I serve quickens what’s dead And makes my labors pleasures . 	this hard work would be boring and nasty to me ,  but I’m working for a mistress who makes me enjoy my labor . 
oh ,  she is Ten times more gentle than her father’s crabbed ,  And he’s composed of harshness . 	oh ,  she’s ten times nicer than her father is mean ,  and he’s the height of crabbiness . 
I must remove Some thousands of these logs and pile them up ,  Upon a sore injunction . 	I have thousands of logs to take away and pile up ,  on strict orders from him . 
my sweet mistress Weeps when she sees me work ,  and says such baseness Had never like executor . 	my sweet darling cries when she sees me work and tells me that such a wonderful man never performed such lowly tasks before . 
I forget ,  But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labors ,  Most busiest when I do it . 	these sweet thoughts relieve me and refresh me ,  especially when I’m slaving away busily . 
alas now ,  pray you ,  Work not so hard . 	now ,  please ,  I beg you ,  don’t work so hard . 
I would the lightning had Burnt up those logs that you are enjoined to pile ! 	I wish the lightning had burned up all those logs that you’ve been ordered to stack ! 
pray ,  set it down and rest you . 	please put that log down and rest a while . 
when this burns ,  'Twill weep for having wearied you . 	when this wood burns ,  it’ll weep for making you tired . 
my father Is hard at study . 	my father’s studying hard ,  so he won’t see you . 
pray now ,  rest yourself . 	so please rest . 
he’s safe for these three hours . 	we’re safe from my father for at least three hours . 
o most dear mistress ,  The sun will set before I shall discharge What I must strive to do . 	oh ,  my dear mistress ,  I won’t be able to finish this work until sunset at the earliest . 
If you’ll sit down ,  I’ll bear your logs the while . 	If you sit down ,  I’ll carry your logs a while . 
pray ,  give me that . 	please give me that . 
I’ll carry it to the pile . 	I’ll take it over to the pile . 
It would become me As well as it does you ,  and I should do it With much more ease ,  for my good will is to it And yours it is against . 	I’d be as right for the job as you are ,  and I’d do it more easily ,  since I’d have good will on my side . 
you look wearily . 	you look tired . 
I do beseech you— Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers— What is your name ? 	I beg you to tell me your name so I can use it in my prayers . 
miranda . —O my father ,  I have broke your hest to say so ! 	miranda . —Oh father ,  I’ve disobeyed you by telling him that ! 
full many a lady I have eyed with best regard and many a time	I’ve looked at many ladies with pleasure ,  and been
for several virtues Have I liked several women . 	but with you it’s different . 
but you ,  O you ,  So perfect and so peerless ,  are created Of every creature’s best . 	you’re perfect ,  without a rival in the world ,  made up of the best qualities of every creature . 
I do not know One of my sex ,  no woman’s face remember— Save ,  from my glass ,  mine own . 	I’ve never known any woman or seen a woman’s face—except my own in the mirror . 
nor have I seen More that I may call men than you ,  good friend ,  And my dear father . 	and I’ve never met any men besides you and my father . 
I am in my condition A prince ,  Miranda—I do think ,  a king; I would ,  not so ! —and would no more endure This wooden slavery than to suffer The flesh - fly blow my mouth . 	I’m a prince by birth ,  Miranda—maybe even a king now; though I wish I weren’t—and normally I wouldn’t put up with carrying these logs any more than I’d let flies breed in my mouth . 
hear my soul speak . 	but I’ll tell you something from my soul . 
the very instant that I saw you did My heart fly to your service ,  there resides To make me slave to it ,  and for your sake Am I this patient log - man . 	the second I saw you ,  my heart rushed to serve you and be your slave ,  so here I am now ,  a patient log - man . 
do you love me ? 	do you love me ? 
o heaven ,  O earth ,  bear witness to this sound And crown what I profess with kind event	oh heaven ,  oh earth ,  witness what I’m about to say ,  and reward me if I tell the truth ! 
If I speak true ! 	If I’m lying ,  then
I Beyond all limit of what else i' th' world Do love ,  prize ,  honor you . 	more than anything else in the world ,  I love you ,  value you ,  and honor you . 
I am a fool To weep at what I am glad of . 	look at me crying—what a fool I am to cry at what makes me happy . 
wherefore weep you ? 	why are you crying ? 
at mine unworthiness ,  that dare not offer What I desire to give ,  and much less take What I shall die to want . 	I’m crying at how unworthy I am to give you what I want to give you and to take what I’m dying to have . 
but this is trifling ,  And all the more it seeks to hide itself The bigger bulk it shows . 	the more I try to hide what I’m feeling ,  the bigger it gets . 
I am your wife if you will marry me . 	I’ll be your wife if you’ll have me . 
If not ,  I’ll die your maid . 	otherwise ,  I’ll die a virgin ,  devoted to you . 
to be your fellow You may deny me ,  but I’ll be your servant Whether you will or no . 	you can refuse to make me your spouse ,  but I’ll be your servant whether you want me to or not . 
my mistress ,  dearest ,  and I thus humble ever . 	you’ll be my wife ,  dearest ,  and I’ll serve you forever . 
my husband ,  then ? 	will you be my husband ,  then ? 
a thousand thousand ! 	a million goodbyes to you . 
I’ll to my book ,  For yet ere supper - time must I perform Much business appertaining . 	now it’s time to get back to my studying ,  since I have a lot of serious business to take care of before dinner . 
tell not me . 	don’t tell me that . 
when the butt is out ,  we will drink water . 	when the barrel’s empty ,  we’ll drink water . 
not a drop before . 	not one drop sooner . 
therefore bear up and board 'em . —Servant -  monster ,  drink to me . 	therefore ,  drink up . —Servant - monster ,  drink a toast to me . 
servant - monster ”  ? 	servant monster ”  ? 
the folly of this island . 	what a crazy island this is . 
they say there’s but five upon this isle . 	they say there are only five people on it . 
we are three of them . 	we’re three of them . 
If th' other two be brained like us ,  the state totters . 	If the other two are as loopy as we are ,  our country’s in bad shape . 
drink ,  servant - monster ,  when I bid thee . 	drink when I order you ,  servant - monster . 
thy eyes are almost set in thy head . 	your eyes look like they’ve sunk into your head . 
where should they be set else ? 	where else should his eyes be ,  if not in his head ? 
he were a brave monster indeed ,  if they were set in his tail . 	he’d be quite a monster if his eyes were in his tail . 
for my part ,  the sea cannot drown me . 	my man—monster is so drunk he can’t talk . 
he’s no standard . 	he’s not standing straight enough to hold a flag . 
we’ll not run ,  Monsieur Monster . 	we’re not going to run in our army ,  Monsieur Monster . 
nor go neither . 	or walk either . 
but you’ll lie like dogs ,  and yet say nothing neither . 	you’ll just lie there like sleeping dogs and say nothing . 
mooncalf ,  speak once in thy life ,  if thou beest a good mooncalf . 	monster sweetie ,  be a good monster and just speak once . 
how does thy honor ? 	how is your Highness ? 
let me lick thy shoe . 	let me lick your shoe . 
lord ,  ”  quoth he ? 	lord ,  ”  he calls you ? 
that a monster should be such a natural ! 	what an idiot that monster is ! 
trinculo ,  keep a good tongue in your head . 	trinculo ,  speak politely . 
If you prove a mutineer ,  the next tree . 	If you mutiny against me ,  I’ll hang you from the next tree . 
I thank my noble lord . 	thank you ,  my noble lord . 
wilt thou be pleased to hearken once again to the suit I made to thee ? 	now would you please listen once again to the request I made to you earlier ? 
I will stand ,  and so shall Trinculo . 	I’ll stand ,  and so will Trinculo . 
thou liest . 	you lie . 
trinculo ,  if you trouble him any more in ’s tale ,  by this hand ,  I will supplant some of your teeth . 	trinculo ,  if you interrupt him any more ,  I swear I’ll knock some teeth out of your head . 
why ,  I said nothing . 	I didn’t say anything . 
mum ,  then ,  and no more . 	okay ,  just stay quiet . 
proceed . 	go on . 
I say ,  by sorcery he got this isle . 	I was telling you he used witchcraft to take this island . 
from me he got it . 	he stole it from me . 
If thy greatness will Revenge it on him—for I know thou darest ,  But this thing dare not— That’s most certain . 	If your highness is willing ,  take revenge on him for that—because I know you’re brave enough ,  I don’t dare to— That’s for sure . 
thou shalt be lord of it and I’ll serve thee . 	you’ll be lord of the island then ,  and I’ll be your servant . 
how now shall this be compassed ? 	and how would we go about doing that ? 
canst thou bring me to th' party ? 	can you bring me to him ? 
yea ,  yea ,  my lord . 	yes ,  yes ,  my lord . 
I’ll yield him thee asleep ,  Where thou mayst knock a nail into his head . 	I’ll take you to where he sleeps ,  and you can pound a nail into his head . 
thou liest . 	you lie . 
thou canst not . 	you can’t do that . 
what a pied ninny’s this ! —Thou scurvy patch ! — I do beseech thy greatness ,  give him blows And take his bottle from him . 	what an idiot this guy is ! —You’re a rotten piece of work ! —I beg your highness ,  beat him up and take his wine bottle from him . 
when that’s gone ,  He shall drink naught but brine ,  for I’ll not show him Where the quick freshes are . 	when he loses that ,  he’ll be drinking salt water ,  since I’ll never tell him where the freshwater springs are . 
trinculo ,  run into no further danger . 	trinculo ,  watch out . 
Interrupt the monster one word further ,  and ,  by this hand ,  I’ll turn my mercy out o' doors and make a stockfish of thee . 	If you interrupt this monster with one more word ,  I’ll beat you like a piece of salted fish . 
why ,  what did I ? 	what did I do ? 
I did nothing . 	I didn’t do anything . 
I’ll go farther off . 	I need to get away from you . 
didst thou not say he lied ? 	didn’t you call him a liar ? 
thou liest . 	you lie . 
I did not give the lie . 	I didn’t accuse you of lying . 
out o' your wits and hearing too ? 	are you out of your mind and deaf too ? 
a pox o' your bottle ! 	damn your wine ! 
ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
now ,  forward with your tale . —Prithee ,  stand farther off . 	now go ahead and tell me the rest of your story . —Please go stand farther away . 
beat him enough . 	beat him up . 
after a little time ,  I’ll beat him too . 	after a little while ,  I’ll beat him too . 
why ,  as I told thee ,  ’tis a custom with him ,  I' th' afternoon to sleep . 	just as I told you ,  he usually sleeps in the afternoon . 
there thou mayst brain him ,  Having first seized his books; or with a log Batter his skull; or paunch him with a stake; Or cut his weasand with thy knife . 	at that time you can smash in his skull after seizing his books; or you can bash his skull with a log; or you can stab him in the belly; or cut his windpipe . 
remember First to possess his books ,  for without them He’s but a sot ,  as I am ,  nor hath not One spirit to command . 	just remember to grab his books first ,  since without them he’s just a poor fool like me ,  and can’t command a single spirit . 
they all do hate him As rootedly as I . 	all the spirits hate him as much as I do . 
burn but his books . 	be sure to burn his magic books . 
he has brave utensils—for so he calls them— Which when he has a house ,  he’ll deck withal . 	he has some wonderful home furnishings—that’s what he calls them—that he’ll use to decorate his house when he gets one . 
and that most deeply to consider is The beauty of his daughter . 	the most important thing for you to think about is how beautiful his daughter is . 
he himself Calls her a nonpareil . 	he says she has no equal . 
I never saw a woman ,  But only Sycorax my dam and she . 	I never saw a woman except her and Sycorax ,  my mother . 
but she as far surpasseth Sycorax As great’st does least . 	but Miranda is so much more beautiful ,  you can’t even compare the two . 
Is it so brave a lass ? 	Is she really that wonderful ? 
ay ,  lord . 	yes ,  my lord . 
monster ,  I will kill this man . 	monster ,  I’ll kill this man . 
his daughter and I will be king and queen—save our graces ! —and Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys . —Dost thou like the plot ,  Trinculo ? 	his daughter and I will be king and queen—God protect us ! —and you and Trinculo will be our governors . —Do you like that idea ,  Trinculo ? 
excellent . 	excellent . 
give me thy hand . 	give me your hand . 
I am sorry I beat thee . 	I’m sorry I hit you . 
but while thou livest ,  keep a good tongue in thy head . 	but try to control your speech . 
within this half hour will he be asleep . 	In a half an hour he’ll be asleep . 
wilt thou destroy him then ? 	will you kill him then ? 
If by your art ,  my dearest father ,  you have Put the wild waters in this roar ,  allay them . 	dear father ,  if you caused this terrible storm with your magic powers ,  please put an end to it . 
the sky ,  it seems ,  would pour down stinking pitch ,  But that the sea ,  mounting to th' welkin’s cheek ,  Dashes the fire out . 	the sky’s so dark it looks like it would rain down boiling hot tar if the sea weren’t swelling up to the sky to put its fire out . 
oh ,  I have suffered With those that I saw suffer . 	oh ,  I suffered along with all the men I watched suffer ! 
a brave vessel Who had ,  no doubt ,  some noble creature in her Dashed all to pieces . 	a fine ship ,  with some good people in it ,  I’m sure ,  smashed to pieces . 
oh ,  the cry did knock Against my very heart ! 	their dying shouts broke my heart ! 
poor souls ,  they perished . 	the poor people died . 
had I been any god of power ,  I would Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere It should the good ship so have swallowed and The fraughting souls within her . 	If I’d been a god I would’ve let the sea sink inside the earth before it had a chance to swallow up that ship and all the people it was carrying . 
be collected . 	calm down . 
no more amazement . 	there’s nothing to get upset about . 
tell your piteous heart There’s no harm done . 	no harm was done . 
oh ,  woe the day ! 	oh ,  what a horrible day ! 
no harm . 	there was no harm ,  I’m telling you . 
more to know Did never meddle with my thoughts . 	It never occurred to me to imagine there was anything more to know . 
ay ,  on mine honor . 	yes ,  I swear . 
thou makest me merry . 	you make me so happy . 
I am full of pleasure . 	I’m full of joy . 
let us be jocund . 	let’s be light - hearted . 
at thy request ,  monster ,  I will do reason ,  any reason . — Come on ,  Trinculo ,  let us sing . 	I’ll do anything you ask ,  monster ,  anything reasonable . —Come on ,  Trinculo ,  let’s sing . 
that’s not the tune . 	that’s not the tune I had in mind . 
what is this same ? 	what’s this song ? 
o ,  forgive me my sins ! 	oh ,  forgive all my sins ! 
art thou afeard ? 	are you scared ? 
no ,  monster ,  not I . 	no ,  monster ,  not me . 
be not afeard . 	don’t be scared . 
this will prove a brave kingdom to me ,  where I shall have my music for nothing . 	this’ll be a wonderful kingdom to live in ,  where they play music for free . 
when Prospero is destroyed . 	as soon as you kill Prospero . 
that shall be by and by . 	that’ll happen soon enough . 
I remember the story . 	I remember the plan . 
the sound is going away . 	the sound is going away . 
let’s follow it ,  and after do our work . 	but let’s follow it ,  and then do our dirty work afterward . 
lead ,  monster; we’ll follow . 	lead us ,  monster; we’ll follow . 
I would I could see this taborer . 	I wish I could see this invisible drummer . 
he lays it on . 	he really plays well . 
wilt come ? 	are you coming monster ? 
my old bones ache . 	my old bones are tired . 
here’s a maze trod indeed Through forthrights and meanders . 	we’re wandering in a maze . 
by your patience ,  I needs must rest me . 	If you don’t mind ,  I need to rest a bit . 
old lord ,  I cannot blame thee ,  Who am myself attached with weariness To th' dulling of my spirits . 	I can’t blame you ,  old lord . 
sit down and rest . 	sit down and rest . 
he is drowned Whom thus we stray to find ,  and the sea mocks Our frustrate search on land . 	we’re searching on land ,  but he’s lost in the sea . 
well ,  let him go . 	we have to give up and let him go . 
what harmony is this ? 	what’s that music ? 
my good friends ,  hark ! 	my friends ,  listen . 
marvelous sweet music ! 	what marvelous music ! 
give us kind keepers ,  heavens ! 	heaven help us ! 
what were these ? 	what were those things ? 
now I will believe That there are unicorns ,  that in Arabia There is one tree ,  the phoenix' throne ,  one phoenix At this hour reigning there . 	now I’ll believe that unicorns exist ,  and that there’s a tree in Arabia where the phoenix lives . 
travelers ne'er did lie ,  Though fools at home condemn 'em . 	travelers have never told lies ,  no matter what the fools at home accuse them of . 
If in Naples I should report this now ,  would they believe me ? 	If I told them about this back in Naples ,  would they believe me ? 
If I should say ,  I saw such islanders— For ,  certes ,  these are people of the island— Who ,  though they are of monstrous shape ,  yet note ,  Their manners are more gentle - kind than of Our human generation you shall find Many—nay ,  almost any . 	I’d tell them that I saw natives like these—since they must be natives—who are graceful and well - mannered even if they’re monstrous to look at ,  kinder than most human beings you might find— kinder than almost any human . 
they vanished strangely . 	they vanished strangely . 
no matter ,  since They have left their viands behind ,  for we have stomachs . 	It’s all right ,  since they left their food behind ,  and we’re hungry . 
will ’t please you taste of what is here ? 	would you like to taste the banquet ? 
not I . 	not me . 
faith ,  sir ,  you need not fear . 	I assure you ,  sir ,  there’s nothing to be afraid of . 
brother ,  my lord the duke ,  Stand to and do as we . 	brother ,  Duke ,  please have some food . 
oh ,  it is monstrous ,  monstrous . 	oh ,  it’s horrible ,  horrible . 
methought the billows spoke and told me of it ,  The winds did sing it to me ,  and the thunder ,  That deep and dreadful organ pipe ,  pronounced The name of Prosper . 	I thought the clouds were talking to me ,  the winds were singing to me ,  and the thunder ,  like an awful organ pipe ,  roared Prospero’s name . 
It did bass my trespass . 	It sang about my crimes . 
therefore my son i' th' ooze is bedded ,  and I’ll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded And with him there lie mudded . 	I’ll go join him there ,  going down deeper than any anchor ever sank ,  and lie with him dead in the mud . 
but one fiend at a time ,  I’ll fight their legions o'er . 	I’ll fight every one of these devils if I have to ,  one at a time . 
I’ll be thy second . 	I’ll back you up . 
all three of them are desperate . 	all three of them are crazy with despair . 
their great guilt ,  Like poison given to work a great time after ,  Now 'gins to bite the spirits . 	their guilt is finally starting to gnaw at them ,  like a slow - acting poison . 
I do beseech you That are of suppler joints ,  follow them swiftly And hinder them from what this ecstasy May now provoke them to . 	those of you who are young and active ,  I beg you to follow them and keep them from doing the crazy things their guilt might push them to do . 
follow ,  I pray you . 	follow them ,  please . 
but If thou dost break her virgin knot before All sanctimonious ceremonies may With full and holy rite be ministered ,  No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall To make this contract grow ,  but barren hate ,  Sour - eyed disdain ,  and discord shall bestrew The union of your bed with weeds so loathly That you shall hate it both . 	but if you have sex with her before the marriage ceremony takes place ,  the heavens will not bless your relationship ,  but will overwhelm you with hate ,  contempt ,  and discord ,  and will poison your marriage bed so that you both grow to loathe it . 
fairly spoke . 	you’ve said it well . 
sit then and talk with her . 	so have a seat and talk to her . 
she is thine own . — What ,  Ariel ! 	she’s yours . —Come ,  Ariel ! 
my industrious servant ,  Ariel ! 	my trusty servant ,  Ariel ! 
what would my potent master ? 	what does my powerful master wish for ? 
here I am . 	I’m here . 
thou and thy meaner fellows your last service Did worthily perform ,  and I must use you In such another trick . 	you and your fellow spirits did your last assignment well ,  and now I need your help again . 
go bring the rabble ,  O'er whom I give thee power ,  here to this place . 	go bring them all here; I give you power over them . 
It is my promise ,  And they expect it from me . 	I’ve promised them I would ,  and they’re expecting it . 
presently ? 	right now ? 
ay ,  with a twink . 	yes ,  right away . 
before you can say  “ Come ”  and  “ Go ,  ”  And breathe twice and cry  “ So ,  so !  ”  Each one ,  tripping on his toe , 	before you can say  “ Come ”  and  “ Go ,  ”  And breathe twice ,  and shout  “ So ,  so !  ”  Each one of your servants will rush here , 
tis time I should inform thee farther . 	It’s time for you to know the whole story . 
lend thy hand And pluck my magic garment from me . 	give me a hand and help me off with this magic cloak . 
not yet .  ”       The hour’s now come . 	not yet .  ”  Well ,  the time has come . 
canst thou remember A time before we came unto this cell ? 	can you remember the time before you came to live in this shack ? 
I do not think thou canst ,  for then thou wast not Out three years old . 	I doubt it ,  since you weren’t even three at the time . 
certainly ,  sir ,  I can . 	sure I can ,  father . 
by what ? 	what do you remember ? 
by any other house or person ? 	a house ,  a person ? 
of anything the image tell me that Hath kept with thy remembrance . 	tell me anything you remember . 
dearly my delicate Ariel . 	I love you dearly ,  Ariel . 
do not approach Till thou dost hear me call . 	don’t come near till you hear me call you . 
well ,  I conceive . 	all right ,  I understand . 
I warrant you ,  sir ,  The white cold virgin snow upon my heart Abates the ardor of my liver . 	I assure you ,  sir ,  the tender love I feel in my heart is stronger than the sexual passions stirring down below . 
well . — Now come ,  my Ariel ! 	good . —Now come ,  Ariel ! 
bring a corollary ,  Rather than want a spirit . 	better to have an extra servant on hand than be understaffed . 
appear and pertly ! — No tongue . 	appear before me now quickly— No talking . 
all eyes ! 	just watch ! 
be silent . 	be quiet . 
ceres ,  most bounteous lady ,  thy rich leas Of wheat ,  rye ,  barley ,  vetches ,  oats ,  and peas; Thy turfy mountains ,  where live nibbling sheep ,  And flat meads thatched with stover ,  them to keep; Thy banks with pionèd and twillèd brims , 	I have come to announce that Juno has asked you ,  Ceres ,  goddess of the fields and the earth ,  to leave your rich farms of wheat ,  rye ,  barley ,  oats ,  and peas ,  the hills where the
why hath thy queen Summoned me hither to this short - grassed green ? 	why has your queen ,  Juno ,  called me here to this grassy spot ? 
a contract of true love to celebrate ,  And some donation freely to estate On the blessed lovers . 	to celebrate a marriage of true love ,  and give a gift to the lovers . 
tell me ,  heavenly bow ,  If Venus or her son ,  as thou dost know ,  Do now attend the queen ? 	tell me ,  rainbow ,  do you know if either Venus ,  the goddess of love ,  or her son ,  Cupid ,  is accompanying Queen Juno ? 
since they did plot The means that dusky Dis my daughter got ,  Her and her blind boy’s scandaled company I have forsworn . 	ever since Venus and her blind son plotted a way for the god of the underworld to steal my daughter away for half the year ,  I swore I’d never speak to them again . 
of her society Be not afraid . 	don’t be afraid of her company . 
I met her deity Cutting the clouds towards Paphos ,  and her son Dove - drawn with her . 	I met Venus as she was with her son on her way to her home on Paphos ,  in a carriage pulled by doves . 
here thought they to have done Some wanton charm upon this man and maid ,  Whose vows are that no bed - right shall be paid Till Hymen’s torch be lighted—but in vain . 	they were planning to pull a mischievous trick on Ferdinand and Miranda ,  who have sworn not to sleep together till their wedding day . 
mars’s hot minion is returned again . 	but their trick failed . 
her waspish - headed son has broke his arrows ,  Swears he will shoot no more ,  but play with sparrows And be a boy right out . 	venus went home again ,  and her little son broke all his arrows ,  swearing he’ll never shoot them again ,  but play with birds like other little boys . 
highest queen of state ,  Great Juno ,  comes . 	great Queen Juno is coming . 
I know her by her gait . 	I know her by her walk . 
how does my bounteous sister ? 	how is my generous sister ? 
go with me To bless this twain that they may prosperous be ,  And honored in their issue . 	come help me bless this couple ,  so they will be prosperous and have many children . 
this is a most majestic vision ,  and Harmonious charmingly . 	this is a majestic and harmonious vision . 
may I be bold To think these spirits ? 	are these spirits we see before us ? 
spirits ,  which by mine art I have from their confines called to enact My present fancies . 	yes ,  they’re spirits that I’ve called out of their prisons to perform my whims . 
let me live here ever . 	let me live here forever . 
so rare a wondered father and a wife Makes this place paradise . 	such a wonderful father - in - law and wife make this place a paradise . 
sweet now ,  silence . 	now be quiet . 
juno and Ceres whisper seriously . 	juno and Ceres are whispering about something serious . 
there’s something else to do . 	there’s something else to be done . 
hush and be mute ,  Or else our spell is marred . 	be silent ,  or else my magic spell will be broken . 
come ,  temperate nymphs ,  and help to celebrate A contract of true love . 	come ,  sweet nymphs ,  and help us celebrate the wedding of two true lovers . 
be not too late . 	don’t be late . 
you sunburnt sicklemen of August weary ,  Come hither from the furrow and be merry . 	now ,  you tanned fieldworkers who are so tired of August’s labors ,  get out of the dirt and come rejoice with us here . 
your rye - straw hats put on ,  And these fresh nymphs encounter every one In country footing . 	put your straw hats on ,  have some fun ,  and dance with these young nymphs . 
the minute of their plot Is almost come . —Well done . 	the moment they planned to act is almost here . 
never till this day Saw I him touched with anger so distempered . 	I’ve never seen him like this . 
we are such stuff As dreams are made on ,  and our little life Is rounded with a sleep . 	we are all made of dreams ,  and our life stretches from sleep before birth to sleep after death . 
sir ,  I am vexed . 	sir ,  I’m upset . 
bear with my weakness . 	please put up with my weakness . 
my old brain is troubled . 	my old brain is troubled . 
be not disturbed with my infirmity . 	don’t be disturbed by my illness . 
If you be pleased ,  retire into my cell And there repose . 	If you like ,  you can rest a while in my room . 
a turn or two I’ll walk To still my beating mind . 	I’ll go for a short walk to calm down my feverish mind . 
we wish your peace . 	we hope you feel better and find some peace . 
come with a thought . 	come ,  Ariel—I summon you with a thought . 
I thank thee ,  Ariel . 	thank you ,  Ariel . 
come . 	come . 
thy thoughts I cleave to . 	I obey all your thoughts . 
what’s thy pleasure ? 	what do you wish ? 
spirit ,  We must prepare to meet with Caliban . 	spirit ,  we have to get ready to meet with Caliban . 
ay ,  my commander . 	yes ,  my master . 
when I presented Ceres ,  I thought to have told thee of it ,  but I feared Lest I might anger thee . 	when I was putting on the Ceres show ,  I thought of reminding you about Caliban ,  but I was afraid of upsetting you . 
say again ,  where didst thou leave these varlets ? 	tell me again ,  where did you leave those lowlifes ? 
I told you ,  sir ,  they were red - hot with drinking ,  So full of valor that they smote the air For breathing in their faces ,  beat the ground For kissing of their feet—yet always bending Towards their project . 	I told you ,  sir ,  they were totally drunk ,  so puffed up with courage that they were getting angry at the air for blowing in their faces ,  and beating the ground for touching their feet—yet even when drunk ,  they kept their plan firmly in mind . 
then I beat my tabor ,  At which ,  like unbacked colts ,  they pricked their ears ,  Advanced their eyelids ,  lifted up their noses As they smelt music . 	then I beat my drum ,  at which point they pricked up their ears and opened their eyes ,  looking around for the source of my music . 
so I charmed their ears That ,  calflike ,  they my lowing followed through Toothed briers ,  sharp furzes ,  pricking gorse ,  and thorns ,  Which entered their frail shins . 	I enchanted them so thoroughly that they followed me through thorn bushes and prickly shrubs that tore up their shins . 
at last I left them I' th' filthy - mantled pool beyond your cell ,  There dancing up to th' chins ,  that the foul lake O'erstunk their feet . 	In the end I left them standing in the smelly pond behind your room ,  with the stinking water covering them up to their chins . 
this was well done ,  my bird . 	good job ,  my little one . 
thy shape invisible retain thou still . 	stay invisible . 
the trumpery in my house ,  go bring it hither For stale to catch these thieves . 	bring the fancy clothes out of my house ,  to use as bait to catch these thieves . 
I go ,  I go . 	I’m going ,  I’m going . 
a devil ,  a born devil on whose nature Nurture can never stick ,  on whom my pains ,  Humanely taken ,  all ,  all lost ,  quite lost . 	he’s a devil ,  a born devil ,  who can never be trained . 
and as with age his body uglier grows ,  So his mind cankers . 	as his body grows uglier with age ,  his mind rots away as well . 
I will plague them all ,  Even to roaring . 	I’ll torment them all till they roar with pain . 
come ,  hang them on this line . 	here ,  hang them on this clothesline . 
pray you ,  tread softly ,  that the blind mole may not hear a foot fall . 	please walk softly ,  so not even a mole hears us approach . 
we now are near his cell . 	we’re near his room now . 
monster ,  your fairy ,  which you say is a harmless fairy ,  has done little better than played the jack with us . 	hey monster ,  the spirit you’ve been talking about ,  the one you call harmless ,  has been playing tricks on us . 
monster ,  I do smell all horse piss ,  at which my nose is in great indignation . 	monster ,  I smell like horse piss ,  which is making my nose pretty upset . 
so is mine . —Do you hear ,  monster ? 	mine too . —Are you listening ,  monster ? 
If I should take a displeasure against you ,  look you—  Thou wert but a lost monster . 	If I decide to get angry at you ,  just watch out— You’d be done for then ,  monster . 
good my lord ,  give me thy favor still . 	my good lord ,  I still need you to like me . 
be patient ,  for the prize I’ll bring thee to Shall hoodwink this mischance . 	be patient ,  because the prize I’m leading you to will make you forget how smelly you are now . 
therefore speak softly . 	so be quiet . 
all’s hushed as midnight yet . 	It’s as silent as a graveyard here . 
that’s more to me than my wetting . 	that upsets me much more than getting wet . 
yet this is your harmless fairy ,  monster . 	and you called the fairy creature harmless ,  monster . 
prithee ,  my king ,  be quiet . 	please ,  my king ,  be quiet . 
seest thou here ,  This is the mouth o' th' cell . 	look here ,  this is the entrance to his room . 
no noise ,  and enter . 	be silent and go in . 
do that good mischief which may make this island Thine own for ever ,  and I ,  thy Caliban ,  For aye thy foot - licker . 	do the deed that will make this island yours forever ,  and will make me ,  Caliban ,  your worshipful foot - licker . 
give me thy hand . 	give me your hand . 
I do begin to have bloody thoughts . 	I’m starting to feel murderous urges . 
let it alone ,  thou fool . 	leave it alone ,  you fool . 
It is but trash . 	It’s worthless . 
oh ,  ho ,  monster ,  we know what belongs to a frippery . —   Put off that gown ,  Trinculo . 	oh ,  monster ,  we know secondhand clothes when we see them . — Take off that gown ,  Trinculo . 
by this hand ,  I’ll have that gown . 	I swear that gown’s for me . 
thy grace shall have it . 	you can have it then ,  your highness . 
the dropsy drown this fool ! 	to hell with this idiot ! 
what do you mean To dote thus on such luggage ? 	why are you going crazy over these trashy clothes ? 
let’s alone ,  And do the murder first . 	leave them alone ,  and do the murder first . 
If he awake ,  From toe to crown he’ll fill our skins with pinches ,  Make us strange stuff . 	If he wakes up before we kill him ,  he’ll never stop punishing us . 
do ,  do . 	thank you kindly . 
I thank thee for that jest . 	thank you for that joke . 
wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of this country . 	as king of this country I like to reward wit when I hear it . 
there’s another garment for ’t . 	here’s another jacket to say thanks . 
monster ,  come ,  put some lime upon your fingers ,  and away with the rest . 	come here ,  monster ,  put some glue on your fingers ,  and carry away the rest of these clothes for us . 
I will have none on ’t . 	I won’t have any of this . 
monster ,  lay to your fingers . 	monster ,  use your fingers . 
help to bear this away where my hogshead of wine is ,  or I’ll turn you out of my kingdom . 	help us carry these clothes to where my barrel of wine is hidden ,  or I’ll kick you out of my kingdom . 
go to ,  carry this . 	go on ,  take them . 
and this . 	take these too . 
ay ,  and this . 	yes ,  and these . 
hey ,  Mountain ,  hey ! 	hey ,  Mountain ,  hey ! 
silver . 	silver . 
there it goes ,  Silver ! 	there they go ,  Silver ! 
tis far off ,  And rather like a dream than an assurance That my remembrance warrants . 	my memory is hazy ,  more like a dream than a recollection . 
had I not Four or five women once that tended me ? 	didn’t I use to have four or five women taking care of me ? 
thou hadst ,  and more ,  Miranda . 	Indeed you did ,  and more besides ,  Miranda . 
but how is it That this lives in thy mind ? 	but how is it possible that you still remember this ,  through all the darkness of the past ? 
If thou rememberest aught ere thou camest here ,  How thou camest here thou mayst . 	If you remember your life before you came here ,  you may also remember how you got here . 
but that I do not . 	no ,  that I don’t remember . 
twelve year since ,  Miranda ,  twelve year since ,  Thy father was the Duke of Milan and A prince of power . 	twelve years ago ,  Miranda ,  twelve years ago your father was the Duke of Milan ,  a powerful prince . 
sir ,  are not you my father ? 	aren’t you my father ? 
thy mother was a piece of virtue and She said thou wast my daughter . 	your mother was extremely virtuous ,  and she said you were my daughter . 
and thy father Was Duke of Milan ,  and thou his only heir And princess no worse issued . 	and your father was Duke of Milan ,  and you were his heir ,  a princess . 
oh ,  the heavens ! 	good lord ! 
what foul play had we that we came from thence ? 	what evil things were done to us that we were driven here ? 
or blessè was ’t we did ? 	or was it a blessing that we came here ? 
both ,  both ,  my girl . 	both ,  both ,  my girl . 
by foul play ,  as thou sayst ,  were we heaved thence ,  But blessedly holp hither . 	we were pushed out of power by evil deeds ,  as you call them . 
fury ,  Fury ! —There ,  Tyrant ,  there . 	fury ,  Fury ! —Get over there ,  Tyrant ,  there . 
hark ,  hark ! 	listen ,  listen ! 
go charge my goblins that they grind their joints With dry convulsions ,  shorten up their sinews With agèd cramps ,  and more pinch - spotted make them Than pard or cat o' mountain . 	ariel ,  go order my goblin servants to make these fellows' bones ache ,  give them muscle cramps all over ,  and give them more bruises than leopards have spots . 
hark ,  they roar . 	listen they’re howling . 
let them be hunted soundly . 	hunt them down . 
at this hour Lie at my mercy all mine enemies . 	now all my enemies are at my mercy . 
shortly shall all my labors end ,  and thou Shalt have the air at freedom . 	soon all my work will be done ,  and you’ll be free . 
for a little Follow ,  and do me service . 	just obey me a little bit longer . 
now does my project gather to a head . 	my plans are almost at their climax . 
my charms crack not ,  my spirits obey ,  and time Goes upright with his carriage . 	my spells are working well ,  my spirits are obeying me ,  and everything is right on schedule . 
how’s the day ? 	what time is it ? 
on the sixth hour ,  at which time ,  my lord ,  You said our work should cease . 	It’s after six o'clock ,  my lord ,  when you said our work would be finished . 
I did say so When first I raised the tempest . 	that’s what I said when I first conjured the tempest . 
say ,  my spirit ,  How fares the king and ’s followers ? 	tell me ,  spirit ,  how’s the king and his entourage ? 
confined together In the same fashion as you gave in charge ,  Just as you left them ,  all prisoners ,  sir ,  In the line grove which weather - fends your cell . 	all cooped up together ,  just as you ordered ,  all imprisoned in the grove of linden trees that protects your room from bad weather . 
they cannot budge till your release . 	they can’t move till you release them . 
the king ,  His brother ,  and yours ,  abide all three distracted ,  And the remainder mourning over them ,  Brimful of sorrow and dismay . 	the king ,  his brother ,  and your brother are all waiting there in a crazed state of mind ,  and the rest are grieving over them ,  sad and astonished . 
but chiefly Him that you termed ,  sir ,   “ the good old Lord Gonzalo ,  ”  His tears run down his beard like winter’s drops From eaves of reeds . 	good old lord Gonzalo ,  ”  as you call him ,  is saddest of all ,  with tears running down his beard . 
your charm so strongly works 'em That if you now beheld them ,  your affections Would become tender . 	your magic spell has such an effect on them that if you saw them now ,  you’d feel sorry for them . 
dost thou think so ,  spirit ? 	do you think so ,  spirit ? 
mine would ,  sir ,  were I human . 	I’d feel sorry for them ,  if I were human . 
and mine shall . 	I will too . 
the rarer action is In virtue than in vengeance . 	It’s better to act virtuously rather than vengefully . 
go release them ,  Ariel . 	go release them ,  Ariel . 
my charms I’ll break ,  their senses I’ll restore ,  And they shall be themselves . 	I’ll break my spells and bring them back to their senses ,  and they’ll feel like themselves again . 
I’ll fetch them ,  sir . 	I’ll go get them ,  sir . 
with his own bolt;     the strong - based promontory Have I made shake ,  and by the spurs plucked up The pine and cedar; graves at my command Have waked their sleepers ,  oped ,  and let 'em forth By my so potent art . 	with his own lightning bolts; I’ve shaken up the sturdy cliffs and uprooted pines and cedars; I’ve opened up graves and awakened the corpses sleeping in them ,  letting them out with my powerful magic . 
but this rough magic I here abjure ,  and when I have required Some heavenly music ,  which even now I do ,  To work mine end upon their senses that This airy charm is for ,  I’ll break my staff ,  Bury it certain fathoms in the earth ,  And deeper than did ever plummet sound I’ll drown my book . 	but I surrender all this magic now ,  when I’ve summoned some heavenly music to cast a spell ,  as I’m doing now ,  I’ll break my staff and bury it far underground ,  and throw my book of magic spells deeper into the sea than any anchor ever sank . 
a solemn air and the best comforter To an unsettled fancy cure thy brains ,  Now useless ,  boiled within thy skull . —There stand ,  For you are spell - stopped . —   Mine eyes ,  ev'n sociable to the show of thine ,  Fall fellowly drops . 	let this solemn melody comfort your fevered minds ,  which are now useless ,  seething inside your skulls . —All of you stand there in my spell . —
why ,  that’s my dainty Ariel . 	why ,  that’s my dainty Ariel singing now . 
I shall miss thee ,  But yet thou shalt have freedom . —So ,  so ,  so . — To the king’s ship ,  invisible as thou art . 	I’ll miss you ,  Ariel ,  but you’ll be free . —Yes ,  you will ,  yes . —Go to the king’s ship in your invisible state . 
all torment ,  trouble ,  wonder ,  and amazement Inhabits here . 	this place is full of trouble ,  torments ,  and amazements . 
this must crave— An if this be at all—a most strange story . 	there must be a strange explanation for this—if it’s true . 
thy dukedom I resign and do entreat Thou pardon me my wrongs . 	I surrender your dukedom and beg you to forgive me all my crimes . 
but how should Prospero Be living and be here ? 	but how is it possible that Prospero’s alive and well and living on this island ? 
whether this be Or be not ,  I’ll not swear . 	I won’t bet on whether or not any of this is real . 
welcome ,  my friends all . 	welcome ,  my friends . 
the devil speaks in him . 	It’s the devil speaking through him . 
you the like loss ? 	you suffered a loss like mine ? 
as great to me as late . 	yes ,  just as great and just as recent . 
and supportable To make the dear loss have I means much weaker Than you may call to comfort you ,  for I Have lost my daughter . 	and I have much less to comfort me than you do ,  since I’ve lost my daughter . 
a daughter ? 	a daughter ? 
o heavens ,  that they were living both in Naples ,  The king and queen there ! 	oh God ,  I wish the two of them were alive and living in Naples ,  as king and queen ! 
that they were ,  I wish Myself were mudded in that oozy bed Where my son lies . —When did you lose your daughter ? 	I’d give up my life and take my son’s place in the mud on the ocean floor if I could see them alive in Naples . —When did you lose your daughter ? 
In this last tempest . 	In this recent storm . 
I perceive these lords At this encounter do so much admire That they devour their reason and scarce think Their eyes do offices of truth ,  their words Are natural breath . —But howsoev'r you have Been justled from your senses ,  know for certain That I am Prospero and that very duke Which was thrust forth of Milan ,  who most strangely Upon this shore where you were wracked ,  was landed ,  To be the lord on ’t . 	these lords seem so astonished that they’ve lost their use of reason and can hardly believe what they see with their own eyes . —But whatever the reason for your losing your senses ,  you can know for sure that I’m Prospero ,  that same duke who was kicked out of Milan and landed on this same island where you landed ,  and became the lord of it . 
no ,  my dearest love ,  I would not for the world . 	no ,  my dearest love ,  I wouldn’t cheat you for the whole world . 
If this prove A vision of the Island ,  one dear son Shall I twice lose . 	If this dream vision is typical of what this island conjures up ,  then I’ll lose my son twice . 
a most high miracle ! 	a wonderful miracle ! 
now all the blessings Of a glad father ,  compass thee about . 	receive all the blessings of a happy father . 
arise ,  and say how thou camest here . 	get up and tell me how you came here . 
oh ,  wonder ! 	how amazing ! 
how many goodly creatures are there here ! 	how many wonderful creatures there are here ! 
how beauteous mankind is ! 	mankind is so beautiful ! 
o brave new world ,  That has such people in ’t ! 	oh ,  what a wonderful new world ,  that has such people in it ! 
tis new to thee . 	It’s new to you . 
sir ,  she is mortal . 	no ,  sir ,  she’s human . 
but by immortal providence ,  she’s mine . 	but by the grace of God ,  she’s mine . 
I chose her when I could not ask my father For his advice ,  nor thought I had one . 	I chose her for my wife when I thought I had no father to ask advice of . 
she Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan ,  Of whom so often I have heard renown But never saw before ,  of whom I have Received a second life . 	she’s the daughter of this famous Duke of Milan I heard so much about but never saw before . 
and second father This lady makes him to me . 	he’s given me a second life ,  and marrying her makes him a second father to me . 
I am hers . 	and I’m her father as well . 
but oh ,  how oddly will it sound that I Must ask my child forgiveness ! 	but oh ,  how odd it is to have to ask for my child’s forgiveness ! 
there ,  sir ,  stop . 	stop right there ,  sir . 
let us not burden our remembrances with A heaviness that’s gone . 	let’s not get gloomy in our reminiscing ,  since there’s no reason for sadness anymore . 
oh ,  my heart bleeds To think o' th' teen that I have turned you to ,  Which is from my remembrance ! 	oh ,  it breaks my heart to think how painful it must be for you to recall all this ,  things that I can’t remember . 
please you ,  farther . 	but please tell me more . 
my brother and thy uncle ,  called Antonio— I pray thee ,  mark me (that a brother should Be so perfidious ! 	my brother ,  your uncle Antonio—just listen to this (I still can’t believe a brother could be so disloyal ! 
he whom next thyself Of all the world I loved and to him put The manage of my state ,  as at that time Through all the signories it was the first ,  And Prospero the prime duke ,  being so reputed In dignity ,  and for the liberal arts Without a parallel . 	my brother whom—aside from you—I loved more than anyone else in the world ,  I trusted to run my state ,  which at that time was the strongest in the land ,  and Prospero the number one duke ,  famous for my dignity and my education . 
those being all my study ,  The government I cast upon my brother And to my state grew stranger ,  being transported And rapt in secret studies . 	since I was so drawn to studying things like logic ,  grammar ,  geometry ,  and astronomy ,  I let my control of the government slide a bit ,  being too wrapped up in my occult books . 
thy false uncle— Dost thou attend me ? 	your disloyal uncle—are you paying attention ? 
sir ,  most heedfully . 	I’m hanging on every word . 
o ,  good sir ,  I do . 	oh ,  yes I am ,  father . 
look down ,  you gods ,  And on this couple drop a blessèd crown ,  For it is you that have chalked forth the way Which brought us hither . 	dear gods ,  bless this couple ,  since you’re the ones who have shown us the path that led us here . 
I say amen ,  Gonzalo . 	amen to that ,  Gonzalo . 
was Milan thrust from Milan ,  that his issue Should become kings of Naples ? 	was the Duke of Milan kicked out of Milan so his children could become kings of Naples ? 
o ,  rejoice Beyond a common joy ,  and set it down With gold on lasting pillars . 	oh ,  this is cause for an extraordinary joy that should be engraved in gold on pillars to last forever . 
In one voyage Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis; And Ferdinand ,  her brother ,  found a wife Where he himself was lost; Prospero ,  his dukedom In a poor isle; and all of us ,  ourselves When no man was his own . 	on one and the same trip Claribel found a husband in Tunis ,  and Ferdinand ,  her brother ,  found a wife where he was shipwrecked; Prospero found his dukedom on a poor island; and all of us found ourselves when we lost control of ourselves . 
be it so . 	so be it . 
amen . 	amen . 
oh ,  look ,  sir ,  look ,  sir ! 	oh ,  look ,  sir ,  look ,  sir ! 
here is more of us . 	more of us are here . 
the best news is that we have safely found Our king and company . 	the best news of all is that we’ve located our king and our men . 
the next ,  our ship— Which ,  but three glasses since ,  we gave out split— Is tight and yare and bravely rigged as when We first put out to sea . 	the next bit of good news is that our ship—which we gave up for ruined only three hours ago—is as well - outfitted and seaworthy as it was when we first set sail . 
these are not natural events . 	these are unnatural events . 
on a trice ,  so please you ,  Even in a dream were we divided from them And were brought moping hither . 	In an instant we were separated from them ,  as if in a dream ,  and brought here in a daze . 
this is as strange a maze as e'er men trod ,  And there is in this business more than nature Was ever conduct of . 	this is a stranger business than men have ever set foot in before ,  and it’s not natural either . 
some oracle Must rectify our knowledge . 	we need some oracle to tell us what’s going on . 
sir ,  my liege ,  Do not infest your mind with beating on The strangeness of this business . 	sir ,  my king ,  don’t waste your time mulling over how strange this business is . 
how fares my gracious sir ? 	how is my lord ? 
coraggio ,  bully - monster ,   If these be true spies which I wear in my head ,  here’s a goodly sight . 	If I can believe my eyes ,  this is a fine sight to see . 
o Setebos ,  these be brave spirits indeed ! 	oh Setebos ,  these are handsome spirits ! 
how fine my master is ! 	how wonderful my master is ! 
I am afraid He will chastise me . 	I’m afraid he’ll punish me . 
ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ! 
what things are these ,  my lord Antonio ? 	what are these things we’re looking at ,  my lord Antonio ? 
will money buy 'em ? 	can you buy them with money ? 
I shall be pinched to death . 	he’ll kill me with tortures . 
Is not this Stephano ,  my drunken butler ? 	Isn’t this Stephano ,  my drunken butler ? 
he is drunk now . 	he’s definitely drunk now . 
where had he wine ? 	where did he get wine ? 
and Trinculo is reeling ripe . 	and Trinculo’s drunk . 
why ,  how now ,  Stephano ? 	how are you doing ,  Stephano ? 
o ,  touch me not . 	oh ,  don’t touch me . 
I am not Stephano ,  but a cramp . 	I’m not Stephano ,  I’m a walking cramp . 
you’d be king o' th' isle ,  sirrah ? 	you wanted to be king of the island ,  sir ? 
I should have been a sore one then . 	I would’ve been a sore king then . 
he is as disproportioned in his manners As in his shape . — Take with you your companions . 	he’s as ugly in his manners as he is in appearance . — I will indeed . 
and I’ll be wise hereafter And seek for grace . 	and after this I’ll be good and hope you forgive me . 
what a thrice - double ass Was I ,  to take this drunkard for a god And worship this dull fool ! 	what an idiot I was to think this drunkard was a god and to worship such a stupid fool ! 
go to ,  away . 	go away ,  now . 
or stole it ,  rather . 	or stole it ,  rather . 
and in the morn I’ll bring you to your ship and so to Naples ,  Where I have hope to see the nuptial Of these our dear - belovèd solemnized ,  And thence retire me to my Milan ,  where Every third thought shall be my grave . 	and in the morning I’ll take you to your ship and we’ll sail to Naples ,  where I hope to see this loving couple married . 
I long To hear the story of your life ,  which must Take the ear strangely . 	I’m dying to hear your life story ,  which must be a strange tale . 
now my charms are all o'erthrown ,  And what strength I have’s mine own ,  Which is most faint . 	now my spells are all broken ,  And the only power I have is my own ,  Which is very weak . 
let me not ,  Since I have my dukedom got And pardoned the deceiver ,  dwell In this bare island by your spell ,  But release me from my bands With the help of your good hands . 	release me So I can return to my dukedom With your help . 
as you from crimes would pardoned be ,  Let your indulgence set me free . 	just as you’d like to have your sins forgiven ,  Indulge me ,  forgive me ,  and set me free . 
I pray thee ,  mark me . 	please listen to me carefully . 
I ,  thus neglecting worldly ends ,  all dedicated To closeness and the bettering of my mind With that which ,  but by being so retired ,  O'erprized all popular rate ,  in my false brother Awaked an evil nature . 	as I neglected practical matters ,  being totally dedicated to solitude and to improving my mind with subjects more valuable than most people imagine ,  I was so shut away from the world that I unwittingly stirred up evil wishes in my disloyal brother . 
and my trust ,  Like a good parent ,  did beget of him A falsehood in its contrary as great As my trust was ,  which had indeed no limit ,  A confidence sans bound . 	my deep trust in him made him deeply untrustworthy ,  arousing in him a treachery as big as my trust was—my trust which had no limit ,  an infinite confidence . 
hence his ambition growing— Dost thou hear ? 	with his ambition growing like this—do you hear what I’m saying ? 
your tale ,  sir ,  would cure deafness . 	of course I hear it . 
me ,  poor man ,  my library Was dukedom large enough . 	my library was a large enough dukedom for me . 
oh ,  the heavens ! 	good heavens ! 
mark his condition and the event . 	think about that ,  and about what followed afterward . 
then tell me If this might be a brother . 	then tell me if Antonio can be called a brother . 
I should sin To think but nobly of my grandmother . 	It would be wrong for me to think poorly of my grandmother . 
the King of Naples ,  being an enemy To me inveterate ,  hearkens my brother’s suit ,  Which was that he ,  in lieu o' th' premises Of homage and I know not how much tribute ,  Should presently extirpate me and mine Out of the dukedom ,  and confer fair Milan With all the honors on my brother . 	the king of Naples ,  my arch - enemy ,  listens to my brother’s request ,  which was that the king ,  in exchange for the respect and money paid to him ,  would get rid of me and make my brother Duke of Milan instead . 
alack ,  for pity ! 	how awful ! 
I ,  not remembering how I cried out then ,  Will cry it o'er again . 	I can’t remember how I cried then ,  but I’ll cry all over again . 
It is a hint That wrings mine eyes to ’t . 	this story breaks my heart . 
hear a little further And then I’ll bring thee to the present business Which now ’s upon ’s ,  without the which this story Were most impertinent . 	just listen a little more ,  and I’ll bring you up to date about the present situation ,  which is the whole reason I’m telling you this story in the first place . 
wherefore did they not That hour destroy us ? 	why didn’t they just kill us that night ? 
well demanded ,  wench . 	good question ,  my girl . 
my tale provokes that question . 	my story does raise that question . 
dear ,  they durst not ,  So dear the love my people bore me ,  nor set A mark so bloody on the business ,  but With colors fairer painted their foul ends . 	the answer ,  my dear ,  is that they didn’t dare ,  because the people of Milan loved me too much . 
alack ,  what trouble Was I then to you ! 	god ,  what a burden on you I must have been ! 
oh ,  a cherubim Thou wast that did preserve me . 	no ,  my dear ,  you were a little angel who kept me going . 
thou didst smile Infusèd with a fortitude from heaven ,  When I have decked the sea with drops full salt ,  Under my burthen groaned; which raised in me An undergoing stomach to bear up Against what should ensue . 	you smiled with a strength you must have gotten from heaven ,  while I cried salty tears into the salty sea ,  and groaned at our situation . 
how came we ashore ? 	how did we manage to get ashore ? 
by providence divine . 	with God’s help . 
some food we had and some fresh water that A noble Neapolitan ,  Gonzalo ,  Out of his charity ,  who being then appointed Master of this design ,  did give us ,  with Rich garments ,  linens ,  stuffs ,  and necessaries ,  Which since have steaded much . 	we had a little food and fresh water that a nobleman from Naples ,  Gonzalo ,  had given us out of the kindness of his heart . 
so ,  of his gentleness ,  Knowing I loved my books ,  he furnished me From mine own library with volumes that I prize above my dukedom . 	knowing how much I loved my books ,  he gave me some books from my library that I value more than my dukedom . 
would I might But ever see that man ! 	I wish I could see that man someday ! 
now I arise . 	now I’ll stand up . 
heavens thank you for ’t ! 	may God thank you for it . 
and now ,  I pray you ,  sir— For still ’tis beating in my mind—your reason For raising this sea storm ? 	but please ,  father—the question is still nagging at me—why did you conjure up this storm ? 
know thus far forth: By accident most strange ,  bountiful Fortune (Now my dear lady) hath mine enemies Brought to this shore . 	you should know this: much luck is on my side ,  and my enemies have happened to wreck their ship on this island . 
here cease more questions . 	now ,  no more questions . 
tis a good dullness ,  And give it way . 	It’s a nice hazy feeling ,  so give in to it . 
I know thou canst not choose . 	I know you have no choice . 
come away ,  servant ,  come . 	come on ,  servant ,  come . 
I am ready now . 	I’m ready now . 
approach ,  my Ariel ,  come . 	come here ,  Ariel . 
all hail ,  great master ! 	humble greetings ,  great master ! 
grave sir ,  hail ! 	worthy sir ,  greetings ! 
hast thou ,  spirit ,  Performed to point the tempest that I bade thee ? 	spirit ,  did you carry out the storm just as I ordered ? 
sometime I’d divide ,  And burn in many places . 	sometimes I appeared in many places at once . 
jove’s lightning ,  the precursors O' th' dreadful thunderclaps ,  more momentary And sight - outrunning were not . 	I flashed about faster than lightning . 
my brave spirit ! 	good spirit ! 
boatswain ! 	boatswain ! 
here ,  master . 	I’m here ,  sir . 
what cheer ? 	hurry ,  hurry ! 
good ,  speak to th' mariners . 	come on ,  men ! 
fall to ’t yarely ,  or we run ourselves aground . 	that’s the way to do it ! 
where’s the Master ? 	where’s the Master ? 
play the men . 	make these men work . 
I pray now ,  keep below . 	please stay below deck ,  sir . 
where is the Master ,  Boatswain ? 	where’s the Master ,  Boatswain ? 
not a soul But felt a fever of the mad and played Some tricks of desperation . 	everyone there got a little crazy and pulled some desperate stunts . 
all but mariners Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel ,  Then all afire with me . 	everyone except the sailors dove into the sea ,  leaving behind the ship that I had set on fire . 
the king’s son ,  Ferdinand ,  With hair up - staring—then ,  like reeds ,  not hair— Was the first man that leaped ,  cried ,   “ Hell is empty And all the devils are here .  ”       Why ,  that’s my spirit ! 	the king’s son ,  Ferdinand ,  with his hair standing straight up—it looked like reeds ,  not hair—was the first person to jump ,  shouting ,   “ Hell is empty ,  and all the devils are here !  ”  Good job ! 
but was not this nigh shore ? 	but was this near the shore ? 
close by ,  my master . 	very near ,  my master . 
but are they ,  Ariel ,  safe ? 	but are they all safe ,  Ariel ? 
not a hair perished . 	nobody was hurt in the slightest . 
on their sustaining garments not a blemish ,  But fresher than before . 	even their clothes are unstained ,  and look fresher than before the storm . 
and ,  as thou badest me ,  In troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle . 	I’ve separated them into groups around the island ,  just as you ordered . 
the king’s son have I landed by himself ,  Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs In an odd angle of the isle ,  and sitting ,  His arms in this sad knot . 	I sent the king’s son off by himself to a faraway nook on the island ,  where he’s sitting now sighing ,  with his arms crossed like this . 
of the king’s ship ,  The mariners ,  say how thou hast disposed ,  And all the rest o' th' fleet . 	tell me what you did with the king’s ship ,  the sailors ,  and the other ships . 
the mariners all under hatches stowed ,  Who ,  with a charm joined to their suffered labor ,  I have left asleep . 	the sailors are all below deck ,  sleeping both from their labor and from a magic spell I cast over them . 
and for the rest o' th' fleet ,  Which I dispersed ,  they all have met again And are upon the Mediterranean float ,  Bound sadly home for Naples ,  Supposing that they saw the king’s ship wracked And his great person perish . 	as for the rest of the ships ,  I scattered them ,  and they’ve gathered again in the Mediterranean ,  sailing sadly home to Naples ,  believing that they witnessed the shipwreck and death of their great king . 
ariel ,  thy charge Exactly is performed . 	ariel ,  you’ve done your work exactly as I ordered . 
but there’s more work . 	but there’s more work to be done . 
what is the time o' th' day ? 	what time is it ? 
past the mid season . 	past noon . 
at least two glasses . 	at least two hours past . 
the time ’twixt six and now Must by us both be spent most preciously . 	we can’t waste time between now and six o'clock . 
Is there more toil ? 	Is there more work to do ? 
since thou dost give me pains ,  Let me remember thee what thou hast promised ,  Which is not yet performed me . 	since you’re giving me new assignments ,  let me remind you what you promised me but haven’t come through with yet . 
how now ? 	what ? 
moody ? 	you’re in a bad mood ? 
what is ’t thou canst demand ? 	what could you possibly ask for ? 
my liberty . 	my freedom . 
before the time be out ? 	before your sentence has been completed ? 
no more ! 	don’t say anything else . 
I prithee ,  Remember I have done thee worthy service ,  Told thee no lies ,  made thee no mistakings ,  served Without or grudge or grumblings . 	I beg you ,  remember the good work I’ve done for you ,  and how I’ve never lied to you ,  never made mistakes ,  and never grumbled in my work . 
thou didst promise To bate me a full year . 	you promised to take a full year off my sentence . 
dost thou forget From what a torment I did free thee ? 	have you forgotten the torture I freed you from ? 
no . 	no . 
thou dost ,  and think’st it much to tread the ooze Of the salt deep ,  To run upon the sharp wind of the north ,  To do me business in the veins o' th' earth When it is baked with frost . 	you have forgotten ,  and you think it’s a burden when I ask you to walk through the ocean ,  or run on the north wind ,  or do business for me underground when the earth’s frozen solid . 
I do not ,  sir . 	no ,  I don’t ,  sir . 
thou liest ,  malignant thing ! 	you lie ,  you nasty ,  ungrateful thing ! 
hast thou forgot The foul witch Sycorax ,  who with age and envy Was grown into a hoop ? 	have you forgotten the horrid witch Sycorax ,  stooped over with old age and ill will ? 
hast thou forgot her ? 	have you forgotten her ? 
no ,  sir . 	no ,  sir . 
thou hast . 	you have . 
where was she born ? 	where was she born ? 
speak . 	speak . 
tell me . 	tell me . 
sir ,  in Argier . 	In Algiers ,  sir . 
oh ,  was she so ? 	oh ,  was she now ? 
I must Once in a month recount what thou hast been ,  Which thou forget’st . 	I’ll have to tell the story again every month ,  since you seem to forget it . 
this damned witch Sycorax ,  For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible To enter human hearing ,  from Argier ,  Thou know’st ,  was banished . 	this damned witch Sycorax was kicked out of Algiers for various witching crimes too terrible for humans to hear about . 
for one thing she did They would not take her life . 	but for one reason they refused to execute her . 
Is not this true ? 	Isn’t that true ? 
ay ,  sir . 	yes ,  sir . 
this blue - eyed hag was hither brought with child And here was left by th' sailors . 	this sunken - eyed hag was brought here pregnant and left by the sailors . 
thou ,  my slave ,  As thou report’st thyself ,  wast then her servant . 	you ,  my slave ,  were her servant at the time ,  as you admit yourself . 
and ,  for thou wast a spirit too delicate To act her earthy and abhorred commands ,  Refusing her grand hests ,  she did confine thee ,  By help of her more potent ministers And in her most unmitigable rage ,  Into a cloven pine ,  within which rift Imprisoned thou didst painfully remain A dozen years; within which space she died And left thee there ,  where thou didst vent thy groans As fast as mill wheels strike . 	In a fit of rage she locked you up in a hollow pine tree ,  with the help of her powerful assistants ,  and left you there for twelve years . 
dull thing ,  I say so . 	that’s right ,  you stupid thing . 
he ,  that Caliban Whom now I keep in service . 	caliban ,  who now serves me . 
It was mine art ,  When I arrived and heard thee ,  that made gape The pine and let thee out . 	It was my magic that saved you when I arrived on the island and heard you ,  making the pine tree open and let you out . 
I thank thee ,  master . 	thank you ,  master . 
If thou more murmur’st ,  I will rend an oak And peg thee in his knotty entrails till Thou hast howled away twelve winters . 	If you complain any more ,  I’ll split an oak tree and lock you up in it till you’ve howled for twelve years . 
pardon ,  master . 	please forgive me ,  master . 
I will be correspondent to command And do my spiriting gently . 	I’ll be obedient and do all my tasks without complaining . 
do so ,  and after two days I will discharge thee . 	do that ,  and I’ll set you free in two days . 
that’s my noble master ! 	that’s noble of you ,  master . 
what shall I do ? 	what shall I do for you ? 
say ,  what ? 	just tell me . 
what shall I do ? 	what shall I do ? 
go make thyself like a nymph o' th' sea . 	go disguise yourself as a sea nymph . 
be subject To no sight but thine and mine ,  invisible To every eyeball else . 	be invisible to everyone except yourself and me . 
go take this shape And hither come in ’t . 	take this garment ,  put it on ,  and then come back here . 
go hence with diligence . 	hurry ,  go ! 
shake it off . 	shake off your sleepiness . 
come on . 	come on . 
we’ll visit Caliban ,  my slave who never Yields us kind answer . 	we’ll go visit Caliban ,  my slave who always talks to us so nastily . 
but as ’tis ,  We cannot miss him . 	but even so ,  we can’t do without him . 
he does make our fire ,  Fetch in our wood ,  and serves in offices That profit us . —What ,  ho ! 	he builds our fires ,  gets our firewood ,  and does all kinds of useful things for us . —Hey ! 
slave ! 	caliban ! 
caliban ! 	pile of dirt ! 
speak . 	say something . 
come forth ,  I say ! 	come out ,  I order you . 
there’s other business for thee . 	there’s other work for you to do . 
come ,  thou tortoise ! 	come on ,  you turtle ! 
fine apparition ! 	what a fine sight ! 
my quaint Ariel ,  Hark in thine ear . 	my dear clever Ariel ,  listen carefully . 
my lord it shall be done . 	my lord ,  I’ll do it right away . 
as wicked dew as e'er my mother brushed With raven’s feather from unwholesome fen Drop on you both ! 	I hope you both get drenched with a dew as evil as what my mother used to collect with a crow’s feather from the poison swamps . 
a southwest blow on ye And blister you all o'er ! 	may a hot southwest wind blow on you and cover you with blisters all over . 
for this ,  be sure ,  tonight thou shalt have cramps ,  Side - stitches that shall pen thy breath up . 	I’ll give you cramps for saying that—horrible pains in your sides that will keep you from breathing . 
urchins Shall ,  forth at vast of night that they may work ,  All exercise on thee . 	I’ll send goblins out at night to work their nasty deeds on you . 
thou shalt be pinched As thick as honeycomb ,  each pinch more stinging Than bees that made 'em . 	you’ll be pricked all over ,  and it’ll sting like bees . 
I must eat my dinner . 	I have to eat my dinner now . 
this island’s mine ,  by Sycorax my mother ,  Which thou takest from me . 	this island belongs to me because Sycorax ,  my mother ,  left it to me . 
cursed be I that did so ! 	I curse myself for doing that ! 
thou most lying slave ,  Whom stripes may move ,  not kindness ! 	you liar ,  you respond better to the whip than to kindness ! 
I have used thee ,  Filth as thou art ,  with human care ,  and lodged thee In mine own cell till thou didst seek to violate The honor of my child . 	I took good care of you—piece of filth that you are—and let you stay in my own hut until you tried to rape my daughter . 
oh ho ,  oh ho ! 	oh ho ,  oh ho ! 
would ’t had been done ! 	I wish I had ! 
thou didst prevent me . 	you stopped me . 
abhorrèd slave ,  Which any print of goodness wilt not take ,  Being capable of all ill ! 	you horrid slave ,  you can’t be trained to be good ,  and you’re capable of anything evil ! 
I pitied thee ,  Took pains to make thee speak ,  taught thee each hour One thing or other . 	I pitied you ,  worked hard to teach you to speak ,  and taught you some new thing practically every hour . 
but thy vile race ,  Though thou didst learn ,  had that in ’t which good natures Could not abide to be with . 	but you had bad blood in you ,  no matter how much you learned ,  and good people couldn’t stand to be near you . 
therefore wast thou Deservedly confined into this rock ,  Who hadst deserved more than a prison . 	so you got what you deserved ,  and were locked up in this cave ,  which is more fitting for the likes of you than a prison would be . 
you taught me language ,  and my profit on ’t Is I know how to curse . 	you taught me language ,  and all I can do with it is curse . 
the red plague rid you For learning me your language ! 	damn you for teaching me your language ! 
no ,  pray thee . 	no ,  please . 
so ,  slave ,  hence ! 	go then ,  slave . 
the watchdogs bark . 	the watchdogs bark . 
hark ,  hark ! 	listen ,  listen ! 
I hear The strain of strutting chanticleer Cry  “ Cock - a - diddle - dow .  ”  Where should this music be ? 	where’s that music coming from ? 
I' th' air or th' earth ? 	from the earth ,  or the air ? 
It sounds no more ,  and sure ,  it waits upon Some god o' th' island . 	It’s stopped now—it must be played for some local god of the island . 
sitting on a bank ,  Weeping again the king my father’s wrack ,  This music crept by me upon the waters ,  Allaying both their fury and my passion With its sweet air . 	as I sat on the shore crying over my father’s shipwreck ,  I heard the music creep over the wild waves ,  calming their fury and soothing my own grief with its sweet melodies . 
thence I have followed it ,  Or it hath drawn me rather . 	I followed it here ,  or I should say it dragged me here . 
but ’tis gone . 	but now it’s stopped . 
no ,  it begins again . 	no ,  there it is again . 
hark ,  now I hear them . 	listen ,  I hear them . 
the ditty does remember my drowned father . 	this song’s about my dead father . 
I hear it now above me . 	I hear it now overhead . 
what is ’t ? 	what is it ? 
a spirit ? 	a spirit ? 
lord ,  how it looks about ! 	lord ,  it’s glancing every which way ! 
believe me ,  sir ,  It carries a brave form . 	how handsome it is . 
but ’tis a spirit . 	It must be a spirit . 
no ,  wench ! 	no ,  girl ! 
It eats and sleeps and hath such senses As we have ,  such . 	It eats and sleeps and has the same five senses we do . 
he hath lost his fellows And strays about to find 'em . 	he’s lost his comrades and is wandering around looking for them . 
do you not hear him ? 	he’s busy ,  can’t you hear him giving orders ? 
you mar our labor . 	you’re getting in the way of our work . 
keep your cabins . 	stay in your cabins . 
you do assist the storm . 	you’re helping the storm ,  not us . 
nay ,  good ,  be patient . 	don’t get wound up ,  my good man . 
hence ! 	now get out of here ! 
to cabin ,  silence ! 	go to your cabins and be quiet ! 
trouble us not . 	don’t bother us up here . 
good ,  yet remember whom thou hast aboard . 	just remember who you’ve got on board with you ,  good man . 
none that I more love than myself . 	nobody I care about more than myself . 
you are a councilor . 	you’re a king’s advisor . 
use your authority . 	go ahead ,  use your authority . 
If you cannot ,  give thanks you have lived so long and make yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of the hour ,  if it so hap . —Cheerly ,  good hearts ! —Out of our way ,  I say . 	If you can’t do it ,  be grateful you’ve lived this long and go wait to die in your cabin ,  if it comes to that . —Harder ,  men ! —Now get out of our way ,  I’m telling you . 
I have great comfort from this fellow . 	I feel a lot better after talking to this guy . 
I might call him A thing divine ,  for nothing natural I ever saw so noble . 	I could imagine he’s divine ,  since I never saw anything so noble - looking on earth before . 
no wonder ,  sir ,  But certainly a maid . 	I’m not marvelous ,  sir ,  but I’m certainly a maiden . 
my language ! 	she speaks my language ! 
heavens ,  I am the best of them that speak this speech ,  Were I but where ’tis spoken . 	my God ,  I’m the highest - ranking person who speaks this language—if only we were back where it’s spoken . 
how ? 	what’s that ? 
the best ? 	the highest - ranking ? 
what wert thou if the King of Naples heard thee ? 	what would the King of Naples do if he heard you say that ? 
a single thing ,  as I am now ,  that wonders To hear thee speak of Naples . 	he would just see me for what I am ,  a person amazed to hear you talking about Naples . 
he does hear me ,  And that he does I weep . 	he does hear me ,  and that makes me cry . 
myself am Naples ,  Who with mine eyes ,  never since at ebb ,  beheld The king my father wracked . 	I myself am the King of Naples ,  since I saw with my own eyes—these eyes that haven’t been dry since—my father killed in a shipwreck . 
alack ,  for mercy ! 	ah ,  how pitiful ! 
yes ,  faith ,  and all his lords ,  the Duke of Milan And his brave son being twain . 	yes ,  indeed ,  and all the King’s men ,  the Duke of Milan and his fine son too . 
soft ,  sir ! 	hang on ,  sir ! 
one word more . 	just a moment . 
If the ill spirit have so fair a house ,  Good things will strive to dwell with ’t . 	If the devil had such a beautiful house as his body ,  then good things would fight to live in it . 
what ,  I say ? 	what’s that ? 
come from thy ward ,  For I can here disarm thee with this stick And make thy weapon drop . 	get out of that position ,  because I can disarm you with my magic wand and make your sword drop . 
beseech you ,  father . 	please ,  father ,  I beg you . 
hence ! 	let go of me ! 
hang not on my garments . 	don’t tug on my clothes . 
sir ,  have pity ,  I’ll be his surety . 	father ,  take pity on him . 
silence ! 	quiet ! 
one word more Shall make me chide thee ,  if not hate thee . 	If you say one more word ,  I’ll punish you ,  maybe even hate you . 
what ,  An advocate for an imposter ? 	you’re defending an impostor ? 
hush ,  Thou think’st there is no more such shapes as he ,  Having seen but him and Caliban . 	you think he’s special ,  since you’ve only ever seen him and Caliban . 
foolish wench ,  To th' most of men this is a Caliban And they to him are angels . 	foolish girl ,  in the eyes of most people this man’s a Caliban ,  and compared to him ,  they’re angels . 
my affections Are then most humble . 	then my love is humble . 
I have no ambition To see a goodlier man . 	I don’t feel any urge to see a more handsome man than this one . 
so they are . 	that’s true ,  they are . 
my spirits ,  as in a dream ,  are all bound up . 	my strength is all gone ,  as if in a dream . 
my father’s loss ,  the weakness which I feel ,  The wrack of all my friends ,  nor this man’s threats ,  To whom I am subdued ,  are but light to me ,  Might I but through my prison once a day Behold this maid . 	the death of my father ,  my physical weakness ,  the loss of all my friends ,  the threats of this man who’s taken me prisoner—all that would be easy for me to take ,  if only I could look through my prison windows once a day and see this girl . 
space enough Have I in such a prison . 	a prison like that would give me enough liberty . 
prithee ,  peace . 	please say no more . 
a dollar . 	what a pain . 
dolor comes to him ,  indeed . 	pain ,  yes indeed . 
you have spoken truer than you purposed . 	you thought you were being funny ,  but you said the truth . 
you have taken it wiselier than I meant you should . 	you’re taking it more seriously than I meant it . 
well ,  I have done . 	well ,  I’m nearly finished . 
but yet—   Which ,  of he or Adrian ,  for a good wager ,  first begins to crow ? 	which one will start yammering first ,  Gonzalo or Adrian ? 
the old cock . 	the old guy . 
the cockerel . 	I pick the younger one . 
done . 	you’re on . 
the wager ? 	what’s the prize ? 
a laughter . 	a good laugh . 
a match ! 	It’s a deal ! 
though this island seem to be desert—	though this island may appear desolate—
It must needs be of subtle ,  tender ,  and delicate temperance . 	the island must be mild ,  and have a temperate climate . 
temperance was a delicate wench . 	I knew Temperance—she was a fine girl . 
ay ,  and a subtle ,  as he most learnedly delivered . 	yes ,  and she was mild too . 
the air breathes upon us here most sweetly . 	there’s always a breath of fresh air here . 
or as ’twere perfumed by a fen . 	stinking like a swamp . 
here is everything advantageous to life . 	this island contains everything beneficial to life . 
true . 	true . 
save means to live . 	everything except something to live on . 
of that there’s none ,  or little . 	there’s little or nothing of that . 
how lush and lusty the grass looks ! 	look how lush and healthy the grass is ! 
how green ! 	how green ! 
the ground indeed is tawny . 	the ground is brown . 
with an eye of green in ’t . 	with a touch of green in it . 
he misses not much . 	he doesn’t miss a thing . 
no ,  he doth but mistake the truth totally . 	no ,  he just gets reality completely wrong . 
but the rarity of it is—which is indeed almost beyond credit—  As many vouched rarities are . 	but the really unbelievable thing is—and this is incredible— As most unbelievable things are . 
that our garments ,  being ,  as they were ,  drenched in the sea ,  hold notwithstanding their freshness and glosses ,  being rather new - dyed than stained with salt water . 	that our clothes were drenched with sea water ,  but they came out looking brand - new . 
ay ,  or very falsely pocket up his report . 	or stuff what he says into their pockets . 
methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in Afric ,  at the marriage of the king’s fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis . 	seriously ,  I think our clothes are as fresh now as they were the day we put them on in Africa ,  when we attended the marriage of the king’s daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis . 
twas a sweet marriage ,  and we prosper well in our return . 	It was a lovely wedding ,  and we’re doing really well on our trip home . 
tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen . 	tunis has never had such a beautiful queen . 
widow Dido ”  said you ? 	next thing you know ,  he’ll be saying  “ widower Aeneas .  ”   “ Widow Dido ,  ”  did you say ? 
you make me study of that . 	I’m not sure about that . 
she was of Carthage ,  not of Tunis . 	dido was from Carthage ,  not Tunis . 
carthage ? 	carthage ? 
I assure you ,  Carthage . 	I’m telling you ,  it was Carthage . 
his word is more than the miraculous harp . 	gonzalo is a miracle - worker . 
what impossible matter will he make easy next ? 	what miracle will he work next ? 
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket and give it his son for an apple . 	I think he’ll carry this island home in his pocket and give it to his son like an apple . 
and sowing the kernels of it in the sea ,  bring forth more islands . 	and then throw the seeds in the sea ,  to make more islands grow . 
ay . 	yes indeed . 
why ,  in good time . 	absolutely ,  yes indeed . 
down with the topmast ! 	bring down that top sail ! 
yare ,  lower ,  lower ! 	fast ! 
bring her to try wi' th' main course . 	let the ship sail close to the wind . 
a plague upon this howling ! 	damn those men shouting down there ! 
they are louder than the weather or our office . 	they’re louder than the storm or us sailors . 
yet again ? 	oh ,  not you again . 
what do you here ? 	what do you want ? 
shall we give o'er and drown ? 	should we all give up and drown ? 
have you a mind to sink ? 	do you want to sink ? 
I’ll warrant him for drowning though the ship were no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unstanched wench . 	yes ,  I guarantee he won’t drown—even if this ship were as fragile as an eggshell and as leaky as a menstruating woman . 
lay her a - hold ,  a - hold ! 	turn the ship to the wind ! 
all lost ! 	It’s no use ! 
to prayers ,  to prayers ,  all lost ! 	we’re done for ! 
and the rarest that e'er came there . 	the most beautiful queen they ever had . 
bate ,  I beseech you ,  widow Dido . 	I beg your pardon ,  except for the widow Dido . 
oh ,  widow Dido ? 	oh ,  except for the widow Dido ? 
ay ,  widow Dido . 	that’s right ,  except for the widow Dido . 
Is not ,  sir ,  my doublet as fresh as the first day I wore it ? 	Isn’t my vest just as clean and fresh as the day I put it on ? 
I mean ,  in a sort . 	In a way ,  I mean . 
that  “ sort ”  was well fished for . 	In a way ”  is the right way to go . 
when I wore it at your daughter’s marriage ? 	I mean when I wore it at your daughter’s wedding . 
you cram these words into mine ears against The stomach of my sense . 	you keep cramming words into my ears that I don’t want to hear . 
sir ,  he may live . 	sir ,  he may still be alive . 
I not doubt He came alive to land . 	I have no doubt he got ashore alive . 
no ,  no ,  he’s gone . 	no ,  no ,  he’s dead . 
prithee ,  peace . 	please be quiet . 
you were kneeled to and importuned otherwise By all of us ,  and the fair soul herself Weighed between loathness and obedience ,  at Which end o' th' beam should bow . 	we all begged you not to go ahead with those marriage plans ,  and your lovely daughter struggled between disgust at marrying an African and the desire to obey you . 
we have lost your son ,  I fear ,  forever . 	now I’m afraid we’ve lost your son forever . 
milan and Naples have More widows in them of this business' making Than we bring men to comfort them . 	our shipwreck has made more women widows in Milan and Naples than there are survivors to comfort them . 
the fault’s your own . 	and it’s all your fault . 
so is the dearest o' th' loss . 	and the greatest sorrow is mine too . 
my lord Sebastian ,  The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness And time to speak it in . 	my lord Sebastian ,  even though what you say is true ,  your way of saying it is tactless and comes at the wrong time . 
you rub the sore When you should bring the plaster . 	you’re rubbing salt in his wounds when you should be applying bandages . 
very well . 	all right ,  I’ll stop . 
and most chirurgeonly . 	like a good doctor . 
foul weather ? 	bad times ? 
very foul . 	yes ,  very bad . 
had I plantation of this isle ,  my lord— He’d sow ’t with nettle seed . 	If I could colonize this island ,  my lord— He’d cultivate weeds on it . 
or docks ,  or mallows . 	or thorn - bushes . 
and were the king on ’t ,  what would I do ? 	and if I were king of it ,  you know what I’d do ? 
scape being drunk for want of wine . 	he wouldn’t get drunk much ,  since there’s no wine here . 
for no kind of traffic Would I admit . 	I wouldn’t allow any commerce . 
no occupation . 	there’d be no work . 
no sovereignty—     Yet he would be king on ’t . 	there’d be no kingship— He wants to be king in a place with no kingship . 
all things in common nature should produce Without sweat or endeavor . 	everything would be produced without labor ,  and would be shared by all . 
but nature should bring forth Of its own kind all foison ,  all abundance ,  To feed my innocent people . 	nature would produce its harvests in abundance ,  to feed my innocent people . 
no marrying ’mong his subjects ? 	there’d be no marriage ? 
none ,  man . 	no . 
prithee ,  no more . 	oh ,  please be quiet . 
thou dost talk nothing to me . 	you’re absolutely right ,  your highness . 
twas you we laughed at . 	It’s you we were laughing at . 
what a blow was there given ! 	ouch ,  what a comeback ! 
an it had not fallen flat - long . 	too bad it fell flat . 
you are gentlemen of brave mettle . 	you’re brave gentlemen . 
you would lift the moon out of her sphere if she would continue in it five weeks without changing . 	you’d give the moon a shove if it got stuck five weeks in its orbit . 
we would so ,  and then go a - batfowling . 	that’s right ,  and then after we fixed the moon ,  we’d go bird - hunting . 
no ,  I warrant you . 	I’m not . 
go sleep ,  and hear us . 	go to sleep ,  and listen to us laughing . 
what ,  all so soon asleep ? 	what ,  everybody falls asleep so fast ? 
I wish mine eyes Would with themselves shut up my thoughts . 	I wish I could sleep too—it would stop me from thinking . 
please you ,  sir ,  Do not omit the heavy offer of it . 	come to think of it ,  I am feeling sleepy . 
It seldom visits sorrow . 	In that case you should sleep . 
we two ,  my lord ,  Will guard your person while you take your rest And watch your safety . 	the two of us will guard you while you sleep ,  my lord ,  and keep you safe . 
thank you . 	thank you . 
wondrous heavy . 	I’m terribly sleepy . 
what a strange drowsiness possesses them ! 	how strange that they all got so sleepy ! 
It is the quality o' th' climate . 	there must be something in the air here . 
why Doth it not then our eyelids sink ? 	so why aren’t our eyelids heavy ? 
I find not Myself disposed to sleep . 	I’m not sleepy at all . 
nor I . 	me neither . 
my spirits are nimble . 	I’m wide awake . 
they fell together all ,  as by consent . 	they all fell asleep together ,  as if they’d planned it . 
th' occasion speaks thee ,  and My strong imagination sees a crown Dropping upon thy head . 	opportunity’s knocking for you ,  and in my imagination I see a crown dropping onto your head . 
what ,  art thou waking ? 	are you dreaming or awake ? 
do you not hear me speak ? 	don’t you hear me speaking ? 
I do ,  and surely It is a sleepy language ,  and thou speak’st Out of thy sleep . 	I do ,  and it sounds like you’re talking in your sleep . 
what is it thou didst say ? 	what did you say ? 
thou dost snore distinctly . 	you’re snoring ,  but it sounds like you’re talking . 
there’s meaning in thy snores . 	there’s meaning in your snoring . 
I’ll teach you how to flow . 	I’ll show you how . 
do so . 	you need to . 
oh ,  If you but knew how you the purpose cherish Whiles thus you mock it ! 	oh ,  if you only knew how close to success you are ,  even while you make fun of what I’m telling you ! 
how ,  in stripping it ,  You more invest it ! 	the more you joke about it ,  the more clearly I feel how serious it is ! 
ebbing men indeed Most often do so near the bottom run By their own fear or sloth . 	lazy people end up at the bottom ,  and you deserve to be at the top . 
prithee ,  say on . 	please ,  tell me more . 
I have no hope That he’s undrowned . 	yes ,  I’m sure he’s dead . 
oh ,  out of that  “ no hope ”  What great hope have you ! 	I’ve got no hope that he survived . 
no hope that way is Another way so high a hope that even Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond ,  But doubt discovery there . 	but in that  “ no hope ”  there are great hopes for you ! 
will you grant with me That Ferdinand is drowned ? 	do you agree that Ferdinand must have drowned ? 
he’s gone . 	he’s dead . 
then ,  tell me ,  Who’s the next heir of Naples ? 	so ,  in that case ,  tell me who’s next in line to inherit the kingdom of Naples ? 
claribel . 	claribel ,  his daughter . 
tis true ,  my brother’s daughter’s Queen of Tunis ,  So is she heir of Naples ,  ’twixt which regions There is some space . 	It’s true that my brother’s daughter is Queen of Tunis ,  and heir of Naples . 
I myself could make A chough of as deep chat . 	I could do it myself . 
oh ,  that you bore The mind that I do ,  what a sleep were this For your advancement ! 	do you even get what I’m saying ? 
methinks I do . 	I think I do . 
and how does your content Tender your own good fortune ? 	and does this prospect of good fortune make you happy ? 
I remember You did supplant your brother Prospero . 	I remember you took the throne from your brother Prospero . 
my brother’s servants Were then my fellows . 	my brother’s servants used to be my equals . 
now they are my men . 	now they work for me . 
but ,  for your conscience ? 	but what about your guilty conscience ? 
ay ,  sir . 	yes . 
but I feel not This deity in my bosom . 	I don’t feel anything . 
should not upbraid our course . 	as
for all the rest ,  They’ll take suggestion as a cat laps milk . 	for the other men ,  we can make them believe anything we choose . 
they’ll tell the clock to any business that We say befits the hour . 	they’ll set their watches to whatever time we say . 
thy case ,  dear friend ,  Shall be my precedent . 	you’ll be my role model . 
as thou got’st Milan ,  I’ll come by Naples . 	just as you got Milan ,  I’ll get Naples . 
draw thy sword . 	take out your sword . 
one stroke Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest . 	with one cut you can be through paying money to Naples . 
and I the king shall love thee . 	and as king I’ll love you forever . 
draw together . 	you take out your sword too . 
and when I rear my hand ,  do you the like ,  To fall it on Gonzalo . 	when I raise my hand ,  you do the same ,  and bring it down on Gonzalo’s head . 
o ,  but one word . 	oh ,  but there’s one more thing to tell you . 
what ,  must our mouths be cold ? 	what ,  we’re going to die ? 
the king and prince at prayers . 	the king and the prince are praying . 
I’m out of patience . 	I’m out of patience . 
he’ll be hanged yet ,  though every drop of water swear against it and gape at widest to glut him . 	this bigmouth jerk here—( He’ll still die by hanging ,  not drowning ,  even if every drop of water in the sea tries to swallow him . 
let’s all sink wi' th' king . 	let’s all sink with the king . 
let’s take leave of him . 	let’s say goodbye to him . 
then let us both be sudden . 	let’s act quickly . 
why are you drawn ? 	why are your swords out ? 
wherefore this ghastly looking ? 	why do you look like that ? 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s this all about ? 
whiles we stood here securing your repose ,  Even now ,  we heard a hollow burst of bellowing Like bulls ,  or rather lions . 	while we were here guarding you as you slept ,  we heard a loud roar that sounded like bulls ,  or lions . 
did ’t not wake you ? 	didn’t you hear it ? 
It struck mine ear most terribly . 	we heard it very clearly . 
I heard nothing . 	I didn’t hear anything . 
oh ,  ’twas a din to fright a monster’s ear ,  To make an earthquake ! 	oh ,  it was a monstrous roar ,  to make the earth tremble ! 
sure ,  it was the roar Of a whole herd of lions . 	I’m sure there was a herd of lions nearby . 
heard you this ,  Gonzalo ? 	did you hear this ,  Gonzalo ? 
upon mine honor ,  sir ,  I heard a humming ,  And that a strange one too ,  which did awake me . 	It’s true I heard a humming sound ,  a strange one ,  which woke me up . 
I shaked you ,  sir ,  and cried . 	I shook you and shouted at you ,  sir . 
as mine eyes opened ,  I saw their weapons drawn . 	when I opened my eyes ,  I saw their swords out . 
there was a noise ,  That’s verily . 	there was a noise ,  that’s certainly true . 
let’s draw our weapons . 	let’s draw our own swords too . 
heavens keep him from these beasts ! 	I hope those lions stay far away from him . 
for he is ,  sure ,  i' th' island . 	I’m sure he’s somewhere on the island . 
lead away . 	get us out of here . 
his spirits hear me And yet I needs must curse . 	his spirits are listening to me ,  but I can’t help cursing him anyway . 
but they’ll nor pinch ,  Fright me with urchin - shows ,  pitch me i' th' mire ,  Nor lead me like a firebrand in the dark Out of my way ,  unless he bid 'em . 	they won’t pinch me ,  frighten me ,  push me in the mud ,  or mislead me unless he tells them to . 
sometime am I All wound with adders who with cloven tongues Do hiss me into madness . 	sometimes snakes wrap around me ,  hissing at me with their forked tongues till I go crazy . 
lo ,  now ,  lo ! 	hey ,  look over there ! 
perchance he will not mind me . 	maybe he won’t see me . 
here’s neither bush nor shrub to bear off any weather at all . 	there are no bushes or shrubs to protect me from the weather here . 
and another storm brewing ,  I hear it sing i' th' wind . 	and there’s another storm brewing—I can hear it in the way the wind whistles . 
yond same black cloud ,  yond huge one ,  looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor . 	that huge black cloud over there looks like a filthy liquor jug that’s about to pour out its contents . 
a strange fish ! 	a strange fish . 
were I in England now ,  as once I was ,  and had but this fish painted ,  not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver . 	If I were in England now ,  like I was once ,  and I had even a painted picture of this fish ,  every fool there would give me a piece of silver to look at it . 
there would this monster make a man . 	In England this strange monster would be just like a man . 
any strange beast there makes a man . 	any strange beast there can be considered a man . 
when they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar ,  they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian . 	the men there won’t give a penny to a lame beggar ,  but they’ll pay ten cents to look at a freak show exhibit . 
legged like a man and his fins like arms ! 	this guy has legs like a man but fins for arms ! 
warm ,  o' my troth . 	and he’s still warm ,  by God . 
I do now let loose my opinion ,  hold it no longer: this is no fish ,  but an islander that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt . 	I guess this is not a fish ,  but a native who got struck by lightning just now . 
alas ,  the storm is come again ! 	oh ,  here comes the storm again . 
my best way is to creep under his gaberdine . 	the best thing to do is crawl under his cloak . 
there is no other shelter hereabouts . 	there’s no other shelter around here . 
misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows . 	In emergencies you meet the strangest folks . 
I will here shroud till the dregs of the storm be past . 	I’ll just stay here till the storm passes . 
this is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man’s funeral . 	this is a rotten song to sing at a man’s funeral . 
well ,  here’s my comfort . 	at least I’ve got some booze to comfort me . 
do not torment me . 	don’t hurt me . 
oh ! 	oh ! 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s going on ? 
have we devils here ? 	do we have devils on the island ? 
do you put tricks upon ’s with savages and men of Ind ,  ha ? 	are you playing tricks on me by showing me savages and uncivilized men from the Indies ,  ha ? 
I have not ’scaped drowning to be afeard now of your four legs . 	I didn’t survive a shipwreck so I could be scared of your four legs now . 
the spirit torments me . 	the spirit is torturing me . 
oh ! 	oh ! 
this is some monster of the isle with four legs who hath got ,  as I take it ,  an ague . 	this is some monster of the island ,  with four legs ,  who seems to me to have some kind of ache . 
where the devil should he learn our language ? 	how the hell does he know our language ? 
I will give him some relief if it be but for that . 	I’ll help out ,  if only because he speaks the same language as me . 
If I can recover him and keep him tame and get to Naples with him ,  he’s a present for any emperor that ever trod on neat’s leather . 	If I can cure him from his fever and tame him ,  and get him back to Naples ,  he’d make a great present for any emperor . 
do not torment me ,  prithee . 	don’t hurt me ,  please . 
I’ll bring my wood home faster . 	I promise I’ll carry the wood faster . 
he’s in his fit now and does not talk after the wisest . 	he’s having a fit and talking nonsense . 
he shall taste of my bottle . 	I’ll give him some liquor . 
If he have never drunk wine afore ,  it will go near to remove his fit . 	If he’s never drunk it before ,  it’ll help soothe his fever . 
If I can recover him and keep him tame ,  I will not take too much for him . 	If I can tame him ,  I’ll charge as much as I can get for him . 
he shall pay for him that hath him ,  and that soundly . 	he’ll bring a lot of money to the person who owns him ,  that’s for sure . 
good ,  speak to the mariners . 	good ! 
bestir Heigh ,  my hearts ! 	let’s go ,  my good men ! 
cheerly ,  cheerly ,  my hearts ! 	look lively ,  look lively ,  my good men ! 
yare ,  yare ! 	quick ,  quick ! 
take in the topsail . 	take in the top sail . 
tend to the Master's whistle ! 	listen to the Captain's whistle . 
blow ,  till thou burst thy wind ,  if room enough ! 	to the storm] Blow your wind until you burst ,  so long as there’s room enough for us . 
where's the Master ? 	where's the Captain ? 
to the Mariners] Play the men ! 	keep the men moving . 
to the Mariners] Play the I pray now ,  keep below . 	please now ,  keep below . 
where is the Master ,  Boatswain ? 	where is the Captain ,  officer in charge ? 
do you not hear him ? 	don’t you hear him ? 
nay ,  good ,  be patient . 	no ,  good man ,  be patient . 
when the sea is . 	I’ll be patient when the sea is patient . 
hence ! 	get going ! 
what cares these roarers for the name of the king ? 	what do these noisy storms care about the name of king ? 
trouble us not . 	don’t bother us . 
good ,  yet remember whom thou has aboard . 	good man ,  even now ,  remember whom you have aboard . 
none that I more love than myself . 	no one that I love more than myself . 
you are a counsellor; if you can command these elements to silence ,  and work the peace of the present ,  we will not hand a rope more; use your authority . 	you are a council member: if you can command these elements to be silent ,  And make this present storm more peaceful ,  we won’t need To work the ropes anymore . 
I have great comfort from this fellow . 	I get great comfort from this fellow . 
methinks he hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is perfect gallows . 	I don’t think he has been marked for drowning: his complexion is perfect for being hanged . 
stand fast ,  good Fate ,  to his hanging . 	hold your position ,  good Fate ,  for his hanging ! 
make the rope of his destiny our cable ,  for our own doth little advantage . 	make the rope of his hanging our rope for the anchor ,  because the one we have now does us little good ! 
If he be not born to be hanged ,  our case is miserable . 	If he is not born to be hanged ,  then our present state is pitiful . 
down with the topmast ! 	down with the top mast ! 
yare ! 	quick ! 
lower ,  lower ! 	lower ,  lower ! 
a cry within] A plague [A cry within] A plague upon this howling ! 	a cry inside] Damn their screaming ! 
what do you here ? 	what are you doing here ? 
shall we give o'er and drown ? 	shall we give up and drown ? 
have you a mind to sink ? 	do you intend to sink us ? 
a pox o’ your throat ,  you bawling ,  blasphemous ,  incharitable dog ! 	damn your voice ,  you loud ,  cursing ,  selfish dog ! 
work you ,  then . 	then go to work . 
hang ,  cur ,  hang ,  you whoreson ,  insolent noise -  maker ! 	hang ,  dog ,  hang ! 
we are less afraid to be drowned than thou art . 	bastard ,  arrogant noisemaker ,  we’re less afraid to be drowned than you are . 
I'll warrant him for drowning ,  though the ship were no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unstanched wench . 	I'll wager against his drowning ,  even if the ship was no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unsatisfied mistress . 
all lost ! 	we’re all lost ! 
to prayers ,  to prayers ! 	say your prayers; say your prayers ! 
all lost ! 	we’re all lost ! 
what ,  must our mouths be cold ? 	what ,  must our voices be ignored ? 
the king and prince at prayers ! 	the King and Prince are saying prayers ! 
let's assist them ,  For our case is theirs . 	let’s join them ,  Since our predicament is the same as theirs . 
I'm out of patience . 	I am out of patience . 
he'll be hanged yet ,  Though every drop of water swear against it ,  And gape at wid'st to glut him . 	he'll still be hanged ,  Although every drop of water swears against it And open very wide to fill him up . 
mercy on us ! ’—‘We split ,  we split ! ’—‘Farewell ,  my wife and children ! ’—‘Farewell ,  brother ! ’—‘We split ,  we split ,  we split ! ’ Let's all sink wi'th’ King . 	mercy on us !  ” —  “ We’re breaking up ,  we’re breaking up !  ” — ” Goodbye ,  my wife and children !  ” —  “ Goodbye ,  brother !  ” — ” We’re breaking up ,  we’re breaking up ,  we’re breaking up !  ” — Let's all sink with the King . 
let's take leave of him . 	let's tell him goodbye . 
now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground—long heath ,  brown furze ,  anything . 	right now ,  I would give a 220 , 000 yards of sea for an acre of bare ground; a long wasteland ,  brown brush ,  anything . 
If by your art ,  my dearest father ,  you have Put the wild waters in this roar ,  allay them . 	If ,  my dearest father ,  you have put the wild waters Into this fury by your magic ,  stop them . 
the sky ,  it seems ,  would pour down stinking pitch ,  But that the sea ,  mounting to th’ welkin's cheek ,  Dashes the fire out . 	It seems that the sky would pour down stinking ,  boiling tar ,  Except that the sea ,  mounting to the cloud’s cheek ,  Puts the fire out . 
poor souls ,  the perished . 	poor souls ,  they perished . 
had I been any god of power ,  I would Have sunk the sea within the earth ,  or ere It should the good ship so have swallowed and The fraughting souls within her . 	If I had been any god of power ,  I would Have sunk the sea on the earth ,  before It would have swallowed the good ship and The souls that were her cargo . 
no harm . 	no harm done . 
I have done nothing but in care of thee ,  Of thee ,  my dear one ,  thee ,  my daughter ,  who Art ignorant of what thou art ,  naught knowing Of whence I am ,  nor that I am more better Than Prospero ,  master of a full poor cell ,  And thy no greater father . 	I have done nothing except to protect you ,  Protect you ,  my dear one ,  you ,  my daughter ,  who Doesn’t know what you are ,  not knowing Where I come from or that I better Than Prospero ,  master of a full ,  poor dwelling ,  And your not so proud father . 
more to know Did never meddle with my thoughts . 	It never entered my mind To know more . 
tis time I should inform thee farther . 	It is time I should tell you more . 
lend thy hand ,  And pluck my magic garment from me . —So: [Lays down his cloak] [Lays down his cloak] Lie there ,  my art . —Wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort . 	give me your hand ,  And take my magic cloak from me . —So: Lie there my magic . —Wipe your eyes; have comfort . 
the direful spectacle of the wreck ,  which touched The very virtue of compassion in thee ,  I have with such provision in mine art So safely ordered that there is no soul— No ,  not so much perdition as an hair Betid to any creature in the vessel Which thou heard'st cry ,  which though saw'st sink . 	the sad spectacle of the wreck ,  which touched The very virtue of compassion in you ,  I have ordered so safely with similar use of my magic That there is no soul— No ,  not so much damage as to one hair Happened to any creature on the vessel Which you heard cry ,  which you saw sink . 
sit down; For thou must now know farther . 	sit down; Because you must now know more . 
you have often Begun to tell me what I am ,  but stopped And left me to a bootless inquisition ,  Concluding ‘Stay ,  not yet . ’ The hour's now come; The very minute bids thee ope thine ear ,  Obey ,  and be attentive . 	you have often Started to tell me who I am ,  but you stopped ,  And left me to a useless questioning ,  Concluding  “ Wait ,  not yet .  ”  Now it’s time ,  The very minute asks you to listen carefully; Obey and listen . 
canst thou remember A time before we came unto this cell ? 	can you remember A time before we came to this dwelling ? 
I do not think thou canst ,  for then thou wast not Out three years old . 	I don’t think you can ,  because then you weren’t Three years old yet . 
certainly ,  sir ,  I can . 	certainly ,  sir ,  I can . 
by what ? 	how ? 
tis far off ,  And rather like a dream than an assurance That my remembrance warrants . 	It is faded ,  And rather like a dream than a definite Memory in my mind . 
had I not Four or five women once that tended me ? 	didn’t I once have Four ,  or five ,  women once ,  that took care of me ? 
thou hadst ,  and more ,  Miranda . 	you did ,  and more ,  Miranda . 
but how is it That this lives in thy mind ? 	but how is it That this memory lives in your mind ? 
what seest thou else In the dark backward and abyss of time ? 	what else do You see in the old ,  dark ,  bottomless pit of time ? 
If thou rememb'rest aught ere thou cam'st here ,  How thou cam'st here thou mayst . 	If you remember anything before you came here ,  How you came here ,  you may remember . 
but that I do not . 	but I don’t remember coming here . 
thy mother was a piece of virtue ,  and She said thou wast my daughter; and thy father Was Duke of Milan ,  and his only heir And princess no worse issued . 	your mother was a piece of virtue ,  and She said you were my daughter: and your father Was Duke of Milan and his only heir A princess — born no less . 
o ,  the heavens ! 	o ,  the heavens ! 
what foul play had we that we came from thence ? 	what foul play did we have that we left there ? 
or blessèd was't we did ? 	or was it a blessing that we did ? 
both ,  both ,  my girl . 	both ,  both ,  my girl . 
by foul play ,  as thou sayst ,  were we heaved thence ,  But blessedly holp hither . 	by foul play ,  as you say ,  we were lifted from there ,  But blessedly helped here . 
please you ,  farther . 	please ,  go on . 
my brother and thy uncle ,  called Antonio— I pray thee mark me ,  that a brother should Be so perfidious—he whom next thyself Of all the world I loved ,  and to him put The manage of my state; as at that time Through all the signories it was the first ,  And Prospero the prime duke ,  being so reputed In dignity ,  and for the liberal arts Without a parallel; those being all my study ,  The government I cast upon my brother ,  And to my state grew stranger ,  being transported And rapt in secret studies . 	my brother and your uncle ,  called Antonio— Please ,  listen to me , —that a brother should Be so guilty of breaking a trust ! —he ,  whom I loved in All the world ,  after you ,  and I let him Manage of my city ,  since ,  at that time ,  It was the first of all the cities ,  And Prospero the best duke ,  being considered so In dignity ,  and for the liberal arts ,  Without equal: since these two items took up all my time in study ,  I cast the government on my brother ,  And I became a stranger to my city ,  being absorbed And wrapped up in my secret studies . 
thy false uncle— Dost thou attend me ? 	your false uncle— Are you listening to me ? 
sir ,  most heedfully . 	sir ,  very carefully . 
o good sir ,  I do . 	oh ,  good sir ,  I am ! 
I pray thee mark me . 	please ,  listen to me . 
I ,  thus neglecting worldly ends ,  all dedicated To closeness and the bettering of my mind With that which ,  but by being so retired ,  O'er prized all popular rate ,  in my false brother Awakened an evil nature; and my trust ,  Like a good parent ,  did beget of him A falsehood ,  in its contrary as great As my trust was ,  which had indeed no limit ,  A confidence sans bound . 	my neglecting worldly responsibilities like that ,  Dedicating everything to seclusion and the bettering Of my mind with that which ,  only by being so secluded ,  Was worth more than all popular opinion ,  awoke in my False brother an evil nature; and my trust ,  Like a good parent ,  made him Lie ,  a lie as great As my trust was ,  which had no limit indeed ,  A confidence without boundaries . 
he being thus lorded ,  Not only with what my revenue yielded ,  But what my power might else exact ,  like one Who having into truth ,  by telling of it ,  Made such a sinner of his memory To credit his own lie ,  he did believe He was indeed the duke; out o'th’ substitution ,  And executing the outward face of royalty With all prerogative; hence his ambition growing— Dost thou hear ? 	playing the lord like that ,  Not only with what my money yielded ,  But also whatever else my power might get him , —like one Who having lied so often by telling it enough ,  Made his memory such a sinner that it gave Truth to his own lie , —he believed He was indeed the Duke ,  making substitution for me ,  And wearing the outward show of royalty ,  With all rights and privileges . —Here his ambition growing— Are you listening ? 
your tale ,  sir ,  would cure deafness . 	your tale ,  sir ,  would cure deafness . 
to have no screen between this part he played And him he played it for; he needs will be Absolute Milan . 	to have no separation between this part he played And the man he played it for ,  he had to become the Absolute Duke of Milan . 
me ,  poor man ,  my library Was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties He thinks me now incapable; confederates— So dry he was for sway—with the King of Naples To give him annual tribute ,  do him homage ,  Subject his coronet to his crown ,  and bend The dukedom ,  yet unbowed alas ,  poor Milan ! — To most ignoble stooping . 	for me ,  poor man—my library Was dukedom large enough: now he believes that I am Incapable of performing my political duties; he makes an alliance , — He was so hungry for power , —with the King of Naples To give Naples annual protection money ,  pledge allegiance ,  Surrender his small crown to Naples’ crown ,  and bend The dukedom ,  which had never bowed before—alas ,  poor Milan ! — To most dishonorable bowing . 
o the heavens ! 	oh ,  the heavens ! 
mark his condition and th’event; then tell me If this might be a brother . 	listen to the situation and the event; Then tell me if this might be a brother . 
I should sin To think but nobly of my grandmother: Good wombs have borne bad sons . 	I should sin only To think nobly of my grandmother: Good women have had bad sons . 
now the condition . 	now the situation . 
the King of Naples ,  being an enemy To me inveterate ,  hearkens my brother's suit; Which was that he ,  in lieu o'th’ premises Of homage and I know not how much tribute ,  Should presently extirpate me and mine Out of the dukedom ,  and confer fair Milan ,  With all the honours ,  on my brother; whereon ,  A treacherous army levied ,  one midnight Fated to th’ purpose did Antonio open The gates of Milan ,  and ,  i'th’ dead of darkness ,  The ministers for th’ purpose hurried thence Me and thy crying self . 	this King of Naples ,  being an old enemy Of mine ,  listens my brother's request ,  Which was ,  that he ,  instead of the promises Of allegiance and I don’t know how much protection money ,  Should presently drive me and my family Out of the dukedom ,  and give the fair city of Milan ,  With all the honors to my brother: which ,  With a treacherous army recruited ,  on a midnight Assigned to the purpose ,  Antonio opened The gates of Milan; and ,  in the dead of darkness ,  The ones given the job hurried Me and your crying self from there . 
alack ,  for pity ! 	a pity that it should be so ! 
I ,  not rememb'ring how I cried out then ,  Will cry it o'er again: it is a hint That wrings mine eyes to't . 	I ,  not remembering how I cried out then ,  Will cry it out all over again: it is a moment That makes my eyes cry . 
hear a little further ,  And then I'll bring thee to the present business Which now's upon's; without the which this story Were most impertinent . 	listen a little bit more ,  And then I'll bring you to the present situation Which is now here ,  without which ,  this story Would be most irrelevant . 
wherefore did they not That hour destroy us ? 	why didn’t they Destroy us then and there ? 
well demanded ,  wench; My tale provokes that question . 	good question ,  girl: My tale invites that question . 
there they hoist us ,  To cry to th’ sea that roared to us ,  to sigh To th’ winds ,  whose pity ,  sighing back again ,  Did us but loving wrong . 	there they launched us ,  To cry to the sea that roared at us ,  to sigh To the winds ,  whose pity ,  sighing back again ,  Only did us loving wrong . 
alack ,  what trouble Was I then to you ! 	what trouble I was to you then ! 
o ,  a cherubin Thou wast that did preserve me . 	oh ,  you were an angel That saved me ! 
thou didst smile ,  Infused with a fortitude from heaven ,  When I have decked the sea with drops full salt ,  Under my burden groaned; which raised in me An undergoing stomach ,  to bear up Against what should ensue . 	you smiled ,  Instilled with strength from heaven ,  When I have covered the sea with salty tears ,  Groaning under my load ,  which raised in me A new strength ,  to put with Whatever should follow . 
how came we ashore ? 	how did we come ashore ? 
by Providence divine . 	by Divine Providence . 
some food we had ,  and some fresh water ,  that A noble Neapolitan ,  Gonzalo ,  Out of his charity , —who being then appointed Master of this design , —did give us; with Rich garments ,  linens ,  stuffs ,  and necessaries ,  Which since have steaded much; so ,  of his gentelness Knowing I loved my books ,  he furnished me From mine own library with volumes that I prize above my dukedom . 	we had some food and some fresh water that A noble Neapolitan ,  Gonzalo , —who ,  being then appointed Supervisor of this plot , — gave us out of his goodness ,  with Rich garments ,  linens ,  stuffs ,  and other necessities ,  Which have since been very useful: so ,  of his gentleness ,  Knowing how I loved my books ,  he supplied me ,  With volumes from my own library that I prize more than my dukedom . 
would I might But ever see that man ! 	I wish I might Only see that man again ! 
here in this island we arrived ,  and here Have I ,  thy schoolmaster ,  made thee more profit Than other princesess’ can ,  that have more time For vainer hours and tutors not so careful . 	we arrived here on this island: and here I ,  your schoolmaster ,  have made you grow more Than other princes can ,  who have more time For worthless hours ,  and tutors that are not as careful . 
heavens thank you for't . 	heavens thank you for it ! 
and now I pray you ,  sir— For still ’tis beating in my mind , —your reason For raising this sea - storm . 	and now ,  please ,  sir , — Because it is still on my mind , —your reason For raising this storm at sea ? 
know thus far north . 	know this much . 
by accident most strange ,  bountiful Fortune ,  Now my dear lady ,  hath mine enemies Brought to this shore; and by my prescience I find my zenith doth depend upon A most auspicious star ,  whose influence If now I court not ,  but omit ,  my fortunes Will ever after droop . 	now ,  my dear lady ,  by most strange accident ,  Generous Luck ,  has brought my enemies To this shore; and by my knowledge of things to come ,  I find my highest point depends on A very lucky star ,  that ,  if I don’t seek its influence now And overlook it ,  my fortunes Will sink forever after . 
I am ready now . 	I am ready now . 
approach ,  my Ariel ,  come ! 	approach ,  my Ariel; Come ! 
I come To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly ,  To swim ,  to dive into the fire ,  to ride On the curled clouds ,  to thy strong bidding task Ariel and all his quality Hast thou ,  spirit ,  Performed to point the tempest that I bade thee ? 	I come To answer your best requests; is it to fly ,  To swim ,  to dive into the fire ,  to ride On the curled clouds; give Ariel and all his quality Your strong requests . 
to every article . 	In every detail . 
my brave spirit ! 	my brave spirit ! 
who was so firm ,  so constant ,  that this coil Would not infect his reason ? 	who is so firm ,  so constant ,  that this noisy disturbance Would not infect his sanity ? 
not a soul But felt a fever of the mad and played Some tricks of desperation . 	there wasn’t a soul that Only felt a fever of the madness and played Some tricks out of desperation . 
all but mariners Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel ,  Then all afire with me: the King's son Ferdinand ,  With hair up - staring—then like reeds ,  not hair— Was the first man that leapt ,  cried ,  ’Hell is empty ,  And all the devils are here . ’ Why ,  that's my spirit ! 	all except the sailors Jumped in the foaming ocean and abandoned ship ,  Then I was all on fire: the King's son ,  Ferdinand ,  With hair standing up straight —then like reeds ,  not hair— Was the first man that jumped ,  crying  “ Hell is empty ,  And all the devils are here .  ”  Why ,  that's my spirit ! 
but was not this nigh shore ? 	but wasn’t this near the shore ? 
close by ,  my master . 	close by ,  my master . 
but are they ,  Ariel ,  safe ? 	but are they safe ,  Ariel ? 
not a hair perished; On their sustaining garments not a blemish ,  But fresher than before; and as thou bad'st me ,  In troops I have dispersed them ’bout the isle . 	not even a hair died; Not a spot on their clothing ,  But fresher than they were before ,  and ,  as you ordered me ,  I have dispersed them in groups around the island . 
the King's son have I landed by himself ,  Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs In an odd angle of the isle ,  and sitting ,  His arms in this sad knot . 	I have brought the king's son ashore by himself ,  And I left him cooling off with the air that blows gently In a remote spot of the island ,  and sitting ,  His arms sadly folded like this . 
of the King's ship ,  The mariners ,  say how thou hast disposed ,  And all the rest o'th’ fleet . 	tell me how you have disposed Of the King's ship ,  the sailors ,  And all the rest of the fleet ? 
ariel ,  thy charge Exactly is performed; but there's more work . 	except that there's more work . 
what is the time o'th’ day ? 	what time of the day is it ? 
past the mid season . 	past noon . 
at least two glasses . 	at least two hours past that . 
the time ’twixt six and now Must by us both be spent most preciously . 	the time between six and now Must be spent most preciously by us both . 
Is there more toil ? 	Is there more work ? 
since thou dost give me pains Let me remember thee what thou hast promised ,  Which is not yet performed me . 	since you give me so much trouble ,  Let me remind you what you have promised ,  Which is not yet done for me . 
how now ? 	how is it now ! 
moody ? 	moody ? 
what is't thou canst demand ? 	what is it you demand ? 
my liberty . 	my freedom . 
before the time be out ? 	before the debt is paid ? 
no more ! 	no more ! 
I prithee ,  Remember I have done thee worthy service ,  Told thee no lies ,  made thee no mistakings ,  served Without or grudge or grumblings . 	please ,  Remember I have worked faithfully for you ,  Told you no lies ,  made no mistakes ,  served Without a grudge or grumblings . 
thou did promise To bate me a full year . 	you promised To give it to me after a full year . 
dost thou forget From what a torment I did free thee ? 	do you forget From what a torment I freed you ? 
no . 	no . 
thou dost ,  and think'st it much to tread the ooze Of the salt deep ,  To run upon the sharp wind of the north ,  To do me business in the veins o'th’ earth When it is baked with frost . 	you do ,  and you think it’s a lot to walk the waves Of the ocean ,  To run on the sharp wind of the north ,  To do my business under the earth When it is baked with frost . 
I do not ,  sir . 	I don’t ,  sir . 
thou liest ,  malignant thing ! 	you lie ,  malignant thing ! 
hast thou forgot The foul witch Sycorax ,  who with age and envy Was grown into a hoop ? 	have you forgotten The foul witch Sycorax ,  who had grown in to a circle With age and envy ? 
hast thou forgot her ? 	have you forgotten her ? 
no ,  sir . 	no ,  sir . 
thou hast . 	you have . 
where was she born ? 	where was she born ? 
speak; tell me . 	speak; tell me . 
sir ,  in Algiers . 	sir ,  in Algeria . 
I must Once in a month recount what thou hast been ,  Which thou forget'st . 	I must recount What you have been once a month ,  Which you forget . 
this damned witch Sycorax ,  For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible To enter human hearing ,  from Algiers Thou know'st was banished—for one thing she did They would not take her life . 	they would not take her life for one thing she did . 
Is not this true ? 	Isn’t this true ? 
ay ,  sir . 	yes ,  sir . 
this blue - eyed hag was hither brought with child ,  And here was left by th’ sailors . 	this blue - eyed hag was brought here ,  pregnant ,  And was left here by sailors . 
then was this island— Save for the son that she did litter here ,  A freckled whelp ,  hag - born—not honoured with A human shape . 	then this was an island—except for the son that she had here ,  A freckled pup ,  born of a witch—not resembling Any human shape . 
yes ,  Caliban her son . 	yes ,  Caliban ,  her son . 
dull thing ,  I say so: he ,  that Caliban Whom now I keep in service . 	I say he’s a dull thing ,  that Caliban ,  Whom now I keep as a servant . 
I thank thee ,  master . 	I thank you ,  master . 
If thou more murmur'st ,  I will rend an oak ,  And peg thee in his knotty entrails till Thou hast howled away twelve winters . 	If you make any more complaints ,  I will open an oak And put you inside it until You have howled away twelve more years . 
do so ,  and after two days I will discharge thee . 	do so; and after two days ,  I will set you free . 
that's my noble master ! 	that's my noble master ! 
what shall I do ? 	what shall I do ? 
go take this shape ,  And hither come in't: go; hence with diligence ! 	go ,  change into a spirit ,  And come here invisibly: go ,  come here with care ! 
exit Ariel] [Exit Ariel] Awake ,  dear heart ,  awake ! 	awake ,  dear heart ,  awake ! 
thou hast slept well; Awake . 	you have slept well; Awake ! 
the strangeness of your story put Heaviness in me . 	the strangeness of your story Made me very sleepy . 
shake it off . 	shake it off . 
come on; We'll visit Caliban my slave ,  who never Yields us kind answer . 	come on; We'll visit Caliban my slave ,  who never Gives us a kind answer . 
tis a villain ,  sir ,  I do not love to look on . 	It is a villain ,  sir ,  that I don’t like to look at . 
but as ’tis ,  We cannot miss him: he does make our fire ,  Fetch in our wood ,  and serves in offices That profit us . 	but as it is ,  We can’t dismiss him: he makes our fire ,  Fetches in our wood; and serves in jobs That are to our advantage . —What hey ! 
there's wood enough within . 	there's enough wood inside . 
when ? 	when ? 
fine apparition ! 	fine apparition ! 
my lord ,  it shall be done . 	my lord ,  it shall is done . 
thou poisonous slave ,  got by the devil himself Upon thy wicked dam ,  come forth ! 	you poisonous slave ,  fathered by the devil himself Through your wicked mother ,  come out ! 
as wicked dew as e'er my mother brushed With raven's feather from unwholesome fen Drop on you both ! 	let a dew as wicked as any my mother brushed From a polluted bog with raven's feather Fall on both of you ! 
a south - west blow on ye And blister you all o'er ! 	a south - west wind blow on you ,  And blister you all over ! 
I must eat my dinner . 	I must eat my dinner . 
this island's mine ,  by Sycorax my mother ,  Which thou tak'st from me . 	this island's mine ,  through Sycorax my mother ,  Which you took from me . 
all the charms Of Sycorax ,  toads ,  beetles ,  bats ,  light on you ! 	all the charms Of Sycorax ,  toads ,  beetles ,  bats ,  fall on you ! 
for I am all the subjects that you have ,  Which first was mine own king ,  and here you sty me In this hard rock ,  whiles you do keep from me The rest o‘th’ island . 	because I am all of the subjects that you have ,  Who was first my own king; and here you chain me To this hard rock ,  while you keep from me The rest of the island . 
thou most lying slave ,  Whom stripes may move ,  not kindness ! 	you most lying slave ,  Whom beatings may move ,  not kindness ! 
I have used thee ,  Filth as thou art ,  with human care ,  and lodged thee In mine own cell ,  till thou didst seek to violate The honour of my child . 	I have used you ,  Filth as you are ,  with human care ,  and let you live In my own dwelling ,  until you tried to rape My daughter . 
would't had been done ! 	I wish I had ! 
thou didst prevent me; I had peopled else This isle with Calibans . 	you stopped me; I would have populated This island with Calibans . 
abhorrèd slave ,  Which any print of goodness wilt not take ,  Being capable of all ill ! 	disgusting slave ,  In which any type of goodness won’t take hold ,  Being capable of every evil ! 
hag - seed ,  hence ! 	offspring of a witch ,  come here ! 
fetch us in fuel ,  and be quick ,  thou'rt best ,  To answer other business . —Shrug'st thou ,  malice ? 	get fuel for us and you had better be quick About answering the other business . 
so ,  slave ,  hence ! 	so ,  slave: get going ! 
sings] [sings] Come unto these yellow sands ,  And than take hands; Curtsied when you have and the kissed— The wild waves whist— Foot it featly here and there ,  And ,  sweet sprites ,  bear The burden . 	come to these yellow sands ,  And then take my hands: Bow courteously when you have and kiss me , — The wild waves are silent , — Dance gracefully here and there; And ,  sweet spirits ,  listen to the chorus . 
hark ,  hark ! 	listen ,  listen ! 
dispersedly] Bow - wow ! 	chorus off - stage: Bow ,  wow ! 
hark ,  hark ! 	at different times)] Listen ,  listen ! 
I'th’ air or th’ earth ? 	Is it in the air or the earth ? 
It sounds no more; and sure it waits upon Some god o'th’ island . 	It’s stopped;—and surely ,  it’s for Some god of the island . 
no ,  it begins again . 	no ,  it begins again . 
sea - nymphs hourly ring his knell: Ding dong . 	sea - spirits ring his death bell every hour: [Chorus (off - stage): Ding - dong . 
the ditty does remember my drowned father . 	the little song reminds me of my drowned father . 
this is no mortal business ,  nor no sound That the earth owes . —I hear it now above me . 	this is not an act of man ,  nor any sound Like those on earth:—I hear it now above me . 
what is't ? 	what is it ? 
a spirit ? 	a spirit ? 
lord ,  how it looks about ! 	lord ,  how it looks about ! 
he hath lost his fellows ,  And strays about to find ’em I might call him A thing divine ,  for nothing natural I ever saw so noble . 	I might call him A divine thing; because I have never seen Anything so natural that was so noble . 
aside] It goes on ,  I see ,  [Aside] As my soul prompts it . 	aside] It goes just the way ,  I see ,  That my soul wants it . —Spirit ,  fine spirit ! 
to Ariel] Spirit ,  fine spirit ,  I—II free [to Ariel] Spirit ,  fine spirit ,  I—II free thee Within two days for this . 	I'll free you Within two days for this . 
no wonder ,  sir ,  But certainly a maid . 	I’m not a miracle ,  sir; But certainly a virgin . 
my language ! 	my language ! 
how ? 	what ! 
the best ? 	the best ? 
what wert thou if the King of Naples heard thee ? 	what would happen to you ,  if the King of Naples heard you ? 
a single thing ,  as I am now ,  that wonders To hear thee speak of Naples . 	an alone thing ,  as I am now ,  that is amazed To hear you speak of Naples . 
he does hear me ,  And that he does I weep; myself am Naples ,  Who with mine eyes ,  never since at ebb ,  beheld The King my father wrecked . 	he hears me; And I weep because he does: I myself am Naples ,  Who saw , —and I haven’t stopped crying , —saw The King ,  my father wrecked . 
alack ,  for mercy ! 	how sad ,  for mercy ! 
yes ,  faith ,  and all his lords ,  the Duke of Milan And his brave son being twain . 	yes ,  believe me ,  and all his lords ,  the Duke of Milan ,  And his brave son being two of those lost . 
aside] Why speaks my father so urgently ? 	aside . 
this [Aside] Why speaks my father so urgently ? 	why speaks my father so roughly ? 
soft ,  sir ! 	aside . 
one word more . 	oh ! 
to Ferdinand] One word more; I [to Ferdinand] One word more; I charge thee That thou attend me . 	to FERDINAND] One word more: I order you that you wait on me . 
thou dost here usurp The name thou ow'st not; and hast put thyself Upon this island as a spy ,  to win it From me ,  the lord on't . 	here you steal The name you don’t own and have put yourself On this island as a spy ,  to win it From me ,  the lord of it . 
no ,  as I am a man . 	no ,  I swear it as a man . 
follow . 	follow me . 
no; I will resist such entertainment till Mine enemy has more power . 	no; I will resist such treatment until My enemy has more power to fight . 
what ,  I say ,  My foot my tutor ? 	what ! 
hang not on my garments . 	don’t hang on my clothes . 
sir ,  have pity; I'll be his surety . 	sir ,  have pity; I'll be his guarantee . 
silence ! 	silence ! 
one word more Shall make me chide thee ,  if not hate thee . 	one word more Shall make me scold you ,  if not hate you . 
hush ! 	hush ! 
to th’ most of men this is a Caliban ,  And they to him are angels . 	to many men this is a Caliban ,  And they are angels to him . 
to Ariel] Thou shalt be free [to Ariel] Thou shalt be free As mountain winds; but then exactly do All points of my command . 	you shall be as free As the mountain winds if you only do Exactly every detail of my command . 
prithee ,  peace . 	please ,  peace . 
he receives comfort like cold porridge . 	any comfort he gets is like cold oatmeal . 
the visitor will not give him o'er so . 	the visitor won’t abandon him like that . 
to Alonso] Sir , — [to Alonso] Sir , — [to Antonio] One: tell . 	sir , — One: speak . 
you have taken it wiselier than I meant you should . 	you have taken it more seriously than I meant you to . 
to Alonso] Therefore ,  my lord , — [to Alonso] Therefore ,  my lord , — [to Sebastian] Fie ,  what a spendthrift is he of his [to Sebastian] Fie ,  what a spendthrift is he of his tongue ! 	therefore ,  my lord , — Damn it ,  what a waste he makes of his words ! 
to Gonzalo] I prithee ,  spare . 	please ,  spare me . 
the old cock . 	the old rooster . 
the cockerel . 	the young rooster . 
the wager ? 	oK .  What’s the bet ? 
a laughter . 	a hearty laugh . 
a match ! 	It’s a bet ! 
to Gonzalo] Though this island seem to be [to Gonzalo] Though this island seem to be desert , — [to Sebastian] Ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	though this island seems to be deserted , — Ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
so ,  you're paid . 	so ,  now you're paid . 
uninhabitable ,  and almost inaccessible— [to Antonio] Yet— [to Antonio] Yet— Yet— [to Sebastian] He could not miss't . 	unable to be lived on and almost out of reach , — Still— Still— He couldn’t resist it . 
It must needs be of subtle ,  tender ,  and delicate temperance . 	It has to be of mild ,  tender ,  and delicate climate . 
to Sebastian] Temperance was a delicate wench . 	climate was a delicate mistress . 
to Sebastian] Ay ,  and a subtle ,  as he most learnedly delivered . 	yes ,  and mild ,  as he has said most knowledgeably . 
to Gonzalo] The air breathes upon us here most [to Gonzalo] The air breathes upon us here most sweetly . 	the air here is very sweet for us . 
or as ’twere perfumed by a fen . 	or ,  as it were perfumed by a swamp . 
to Sebastian] True ,  save means to live . 	true; except the means to live it . 
to Sebastian] True ,  Of that there's none ,  or little . 	there's none ,  or little of that . 
to Adrian] How lush and lusty the grass looks ! 	how lush and lusty the grass looks ! 
to Adrian] How lush and How green ! 	how green ! 
the ground indeed is tawny . 	the ground indeed is orangey . 
with an eye of green in't . 	with a touch of green in it . 
he misses not much . 	he doesn’t miss much . 
no ,  he doth but mistake the truth totally . 	no; he only totally misses the truth . 
to Adrian] But the rarity of it is ,  which is indeed [to Adrian] But the rarity of it is ,  which is indeed almost beyond credit— [to Antonio] As many vouched rarities are . 	but the special thing about it is , —which is indeed almost beyond belief , — As many verified  “ special things ”  are . 
to Antonio] As many [to Adrian] That our garments ,  being ,  as they were ,  [to Adrian] That our garments ,  being ,  as they were ,  drenched in the sea ,  hold notwithstanding their freshness and glosses ,  being rather new - dyed than stained with salt water . 	that our garments ,  being ,  as they were ,  drenched in the ocean ,  have ,  nevertheless ,  retained their freshness and sheen ,  seeming to be just cleaned rather than stained with salt water . 
to Sebastian] If but one of his pockets could speak ,  [to Sebastian] If but one of his pockets could speak ,  would it not say he lies ? 	If only one of his pockets could speak ,  wouldn’t it say he lies ? 
ay ,  or very falsely pocket up his report . 	yes ,  or hide the report in the pocket . 
to Adrian] Methinks our garments are now as fresh as [to Adrian] Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in Afric ,  at the marriage of the King's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis . 	I think our garments are now as fresh as they were when we first put them in Africa ,  at the wedding of the king's fair daughter ,  Claribel ,  to the King of Tunis . 
twas a sweet marriage ,  and we prosper well in our return . 	It was a sweet wedding ,  and we were doing so well on our return . 
tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen . 	tunis was never graced before with anything equal to their queen . 
not since widow Dido's time . 	not since widow Dido's time . 
widow ? 	widow ! 
a pox o'that ! 	like hell she was ! 
how came that widow in ? 	how did she become a widow ? 
widow Dido ! 	widow Dido ! 
to Gonzalo] ‘Widow Dido’ said you ? 	widow Dido ,  ”  you said ? 
you make me study of that: she was of Carthage ,  not of Tunis . 	you made me study that one; she was from Carthage ,  not of Tunis . 
this Tunis ,  sir ,  was Carthage . 	this Tunis ,  sir ,  was Carthage . 
carthage ? 	carthage ? 
I assure you ,  Carthage . 	trust me ,  Carthage . 
to Sebastian] His word is more than the miraculous [to Sebastian] His word is more than the miraculous harp . 	his word is more miraculous than the magic harp . 
he hath raised the wall ,  and houses too . 	he has raised the wall and houses too . 
what impossible matter will he make easy next ? 	what impossible subject will he make easy next ? 
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket and give it his son for an apple . 	I think he will carry this island home in his pocket ,  and give it his son as an apple . 
and sowing the kernels of it in the sea ,  bring forth more islands . 	and ,  sowing the seeds of it in the ocean ,  create more islands . 
to Adrian] Ay . 	yes . 
to Adrian] [to Sebastian] Why ,  in good time . 	why ,  in good time . 
to Sebastian] Why ,  in good time . 	to ALONSO . 
to Alonso] Sir ,  we were talking that our garments seem [to Alonso] Sir ,  we were talking that our garments seem now as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage of your daughter ,  who is not queen . 	sir ,  we were discussing how our garments now seem as fresh as they were when we were at the wedding of your daughter ,  who is now Queen ,  in Tunis . 
and the rarest that e'er came there . 	and the rarest person that ever came there . 
bate ,  I beseech you ,  widow Dido . 	stop ,  please ,  widow Dido . 
o ,  widow Dido ! 	oh ! 
ay ,  widow Dido . 	widow Dido; yes ,  widow Dido . 
to Alonso] Is not ,  sir ,  my doublet as fresh as the first day [to Alonso] Is not ,  sir ,  my I wore it ? 	Isn’t my jacket ,  sir ,  as fresh as the first day I wore it ? 
I mean ,  in a sort . 	I mean ,  in a way . 
you cram these words into mine ears against The stomach of my sense . 	you cram these words into my ears against The stomach of my sense . 
would I have never Married my daughter there ! 	I wish I had never Married my daughter there ! 
for ,  coming thence ,  My son is lost ,  and ,  in my rate ,  she too ,  Who is so far from Italy removed I ne'er again shall see her . 	because ,  coming from there ,  My son is lost; and ,  in my opinion ,  she is too ,  Who is so far away from Italy ,  That I shall never see her again . 
no ,  no; he's gone . 	no ,  no; he's gone . 
to Alonso] Sir ,  you may thank yourself for this [to Alonso] Sir ,  you may thank yourself for this great loss ,  That would not bless our Europe with your daughter ,  But rather lose her to an African ,  Where she ,  at least ,  is banished from your eye ,  Who hath cause to wet the grief on't . 	sir ,  you may thank yourself for this great loss ,  Since you wouldn’t bless our Europe with your daughter ,  But would rather marry her to an African; Where she is ,  at least ,  out of your sight ,  You who has cause to shed tears about it . 
prithee ,  peace . 	please ,  peace . 
you were kneeled to an importuned otherwise By all of us ,  and the fair soul herself Weighed between loathness and obedience at Which end o'th’ beam should bow . 	you were kneeled to and otherwise begged By all of us; and the fair soul herself Considered at which option she should take ,  Between reluctance and obedience . 
so is the dear'st o'th’ loss . 	so is the most difficult loss . 
my lord Sebastian ,  The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness And time to speak it in—you rub the sore ,  When you should bring the plaster . 	my lord Sebastian ,  The truth you speak lacks some gentleness And proper timing; you rub the wound ,  When you should bring the Band - Aid . 
very well . 	very well . 
and most chirurgeonly . 	and almost like a licensed surgeon . 
to Alonso] It is foul weather in us all ,  good sir ,  [to Alonso] It is foul weather in us all ,  good sir ,  When you are cloudy . 	It is bad weather in us all ,  good sir ,  When you are cloudy . 
very foul . 	very bad . 
to Alonso] Had I plantation of this isle ,  my lord , — [to Alonso] Had I [to Sebastian] He'd sow't with nettle - seed . 	If I had a plantation of this island ,  my lord , — Listen ,  plant it with plants that sting . 
to Sebastian] He'd sow't with Or docks ,  or mallows . 	or the antidote for stinging plants or hollyhocks . 
and were the king on't ,  what would I do ? 	and if the king were on it ,  what would I do ? 
I'th’ commonwealth I would by contraries Execute all things ,  for no kind of traffic Would I admit; no name of magistrate; Letters should not be known; riches ,  poverty ,  And use of service ,  none; contract ,  succession ,  Bourn ,  bound of land ,  tilth ,  vineyard ,  none; No use of metal ,  corn ,  or wine ,  or oil; No occupation; all men idle ,  all; And women too ,  but innocent and pure; No sovereignty— [to Antonio] Yet he would be king on't . 	In the country ,  I would carry out all things By opposites; because I wouldn’t admit Any kind of traffic; have no one named magistrate; Appeals before a court wouldn’t be recognized; riches ,  poverty ,  And slavery ,  none; treaties ,  lines of succession ,  Boundaries ,  boundary lines of land ,  farming ,  vineyards ,  none; No use of metal ,  corn ,  or wine ,  or oil; No occupations; all men idle ,  all: And women too ,  only innocent and pure; No supreme ruler , — But he would be king on it . 
to Antonio] No marrying ’mong his subjects ? 	no marrying among his subjects ? 
none ,  man; all idle: whores and knaves . 	none ,  man: all are idle whores and rogues . 
to Alonso] I would with such perfection govern ,  sir ,  [to Alonso] I would with such perfection govern ,  sir ,  T'excel the golden age . 	I would govern with perfection like yours ,  sir ,  To surpass the golden age . 
save his majesty ! 	save his Majesty ! 
long live Gonzalo ! 	long live Gonzalo ! 
I do well believe your highness ,  and did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen ,  who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing . 	I really do believe your highness; and did it to provide opportunity to these gentlemen ,  who have similar common sense and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing . 
twas you we laughed at . 	It was you we laughed at . 
who ,  in this kind of merry fooling ,  am nothing to you; so you may continue and laugh at nothing still . 	who is nothing to you in this kind of merry joking ,  so you may continue and still laugh at nothing . 
what a blow was there given ! 	what a hard blow that was ! 
an it had not fallen flat - long . 	If it had not fallen dead flat . 
you are gentlemen of brave mettle; you would lift the moon out of her sphere ,  if she would continue in it five weeks without changing . 	you are gentlemen of brave spirit: you would lift the moon out of her orbit if she would continue in it for five weeks without changing . 
we would so ,  and then go a - bat - fowling .  .  [to Gonzalo] Nay ,  good my lord ,  be not angry . 	we would so ,  and then go swindling . 
to Gonzalo] Nay ,  good my lord ,  be not angry . 	no ,  good my lord ,  don’t be angry . 
no ,  I warrant you; I will not adventure my discre -  tion so weakly . 	no ,  I promise you; I won’t risk my reputation so stupidly . 
will you laugh me asleep ,  for I am very heavy ? 	will you laugh me asleep ,  because I am exhausted ? 
go sleep ,  and hear us . 	go to sleep ,  and listen to us . 
I wish mine eyes Would ,  with themselves ,  shut up my thoughts: I find They are inclined to do so . 	I wish my eyes Would shut up my thoughts by closing: I think They want to do so . 
we two ,  my lord ,  Will guard your person while you take your rest ,  And watch your safety . 	we two ,  my lord ,  Will guard your person while you sleep ,  And watch for your safety . 
thank you . 	thank you . 
wondrous heavy . 	amazingly sleepy ! 
what a strange drowsiness possesses them ! 	what a strange drowsiness possesses them ! 
It is the quality o'th’ climate . 	It is the nature of the climate . 
why Doth it not then our eyelids sink ? 	why Doesn’t then make our eyelids close ? 
I find not Myself disposed to sleep . 	I don’t find Myself wanting to sleep . 
nor I; my spirits are nimble . 	me either: I’m wide awake . 
they fell together all ,  as by consent; They dropped ,  as by a thunder - stroke . 	they all fell asleep together ,  as if they all agreed; They dropped ,  as if hit by a thunder - stroke . 
do you not hear me speak ? 	aren’t you listening to me speak ? 
I do; and surely It is a sleepy language and thou speak'st Out of thy sleep . 	I do: and surely It is a sleepy language ,  and you talk In your sleep . 
what is it thou didst say ? 	what is it you said ? 
this is a strange repose ,  to be asleep With eyes wide open; standing ,  speaking ,  moving ,  And yet so fast asleep . 	this is a strange rest ,  to be asleep With eyes wide open; standing ,  speaking ,  moving ,  And yet so fast asleep . 
noble Sebastian ,  Thou let'st thy fortune sleep—die rather; wink'st Whiles thou art waking . 	noble Sebastian ,  You let your fortune sleep — die rather: wink While you are waking . 
thou dost snore distinctly; There's meaning in thy snores . 	you snore distinctly: There's meaning in your snores . 
well ,  I am standing water . 	well ,  I am standing water . 
I'll teach you how to flow . 	I'll teach you how to flow . 
do so: to ebb Hereditary sloth instructs me . 	do so: laziness I inherited teaches me to go down ,  Oh ! 
o ,  If you but knew how you the purpose cherish Whiles thus you mock it; how in stripping it . 	If you only knew how you appreciate the purpose While you mock it like this ! 
you more invest it ! 	how ,  in stripping it bare ,  You invest more in it ! 
ebbing men ,  indeed ,  Most often do so near the bottom run By their own fear or sloth . 	men that flow backward indeed ,  Most often ,  run too near to the bottom By their own fear or laziness . 
thus ,  sir: Although this lord of weak remembrance ,  this ,  Who shall be of as little memory When he is earth'd ,  hath here almost persuaded— For he's a spirit of persuasion ,  only Professes to persuade—the king his son's alive ,  ’Tis as impossible that he's undrowned As he that sleeps here swims . 	like this ,  sir: Although this lord of weak memory ,  this man Who shall be remembered little When he is buried ,  here has almost persuaded , — Because he's a spirit of persuasion ,  only he Professes to persuade , —the King’s son is alive ,  It is as impossible that he's not drowned As he who sleeps here swims . 
I have no hope That he's undrowned . 	I have no hope That he's not drowned . 
no hope that way is Another way so high a hope that even Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond ,  But doubt discovery there . 	to have no hope that he is drowned is another way to have such a high hope ,  That even Ambition can’t see beyond it ,  But defies belief . 
will you grant with me That Ferdinand is drowned ? 	will you agree with me That Ferdinand is drowned ? 
he's gone . 	he's gone . 
then ,  tell me ,  Who's the next heir of Naples ? 	then tell me ,  Who's the next heir of Naples ? 
claribel . 	claribel . 
how say you ? 	what are you talking about ! —How are you saying ? 
tis true my brother's daughter's Queen of Tunis; So is she heir of Naples; ’twixt which regions There is some space . 	It’s true ,  my brother's daughter is Queen of Tunis; She also inherits Naples; there is some distance Between the two countries . 
there be that can rule Naples As well as he that sleeps ,  lords that can prate As amply and unnecessarily As this Gonzalo; I myself could make A chough of as deep chat . 	there is one that can rule Naples As well as the man who is sleeping ,  lords that can talk As much and unnecessarily As this Gonzalo: I myself could make Asses of these lords  . 
o ,  that you bore The mind that I do ! 	o ,  I wish you were of The same mind as I am ! 
what a sleep were this For your advancement ! 	what a sleep this is For your advancement ! 
do you understand me ? 	do you understand me ? 
methinks I do . 	I think I do . 
and how does your content Tender your own good fortune ? 	and how does your happiness Advance your own good fortune ? 
for all the rest ,  They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk; They'll tell the clock to any business that We say befits the hour . 	for all the rest ,  They'll take a suggestion as a cat licks up milk: They'll turn the clock to any business that We say is right for the hour . 
thy case ,  dear friend ,  Shall be my precedent: as thou got'st Milan ,  I'll come by Naples . 	your case ,  dear friend ,  Shall be my authority for what I do: as you go to Milan ,  I'll come by Naples . 
draw thy sword—one stroke Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest ,  And I the King shall love thee . 	draw your sword: one stroke Shall free you from the taxes which you pay ,  And I the king shall be devoted to you . 
draw together ,  And when I rear my hand ,  do you the like ,  To fall it on Gonzalo . 	pull out your sword when I do: And when I raise my hand ,  you do the same ,  So that it falls on Gonzalo . 
ariel sings in Gonzalo's ear] [Ariel sings in Gonzalo's ear] While you here do snoring lie ,  Open - eyed conspiracy His time doth take . 	while you lie here snoring ,  Open - eyed Plotting Takes his time . 
If of life you keep a care ,  Shake off slumber ,  and beware . 	If you care about your life ,  Shake off slumber ,  and beware . 
now ,  good angels Preserve the King . 	now ,  good angels Preserve the King ! 
waking] Why ,  how now ? 	why ,  how is it now ! 
ho ,  awake ! 	ho ,  awake ! 
waking] Why ,  how now ? 	why are your swords drawn ? 
to Gonzalo] Wherefore this What's the matter ? 	what's the matter ? 
It struck mine ear most terribly . 	It was most terrible to hear . 
I heard nothing . 	I heard nothing . 
heard you this ,  Gonzalo ? 	did you hear this ,  Gonzalo ? 
upon mine honour ,  sir ,  I heard a humming ,  And that a strange one too ,  which did awake me . 	on my honor ,  sir ,  I heard a humming ,  And it was a strange one too ,  which woke me up . 
lead off this ground ,  and let's make further search For my poor son . 	lead us away from this place: and let's search further For my poor son . 
heavens keep him from these beasts ! 	heavens protect him from these beasts ! 
for he is sure i'th’ island . 	because he is surely on the island . 
lead away . 	lead us away . 
all the infections that the sun sucks up From bogs ,  fens ,  flats ,  on Prosper fall ,  and make him By inch - meal disease ! 	all the diseases that the sun sucks up From bogs ,  swamps ,  flats ,  fall on Prospero and make him A disease inch by inch ! 
a noise of thunder heard] [A noise of thunder heard] His spirits hear me ,  And yet I needs must curse . 	his spirits listen to me ,  And yet I have to curse . 
here comes a spirit of his ,  and to torment me For bringing wood in slowly ,  I'll fall flat . 	here comes a spirit of his ,  to torment me For bringing in wood too slowly . 
perchance he will not mind me . 	I'll fall down flat; Maybe he won’t notice me . 
a fish: he smells like a fish; a very ancient and fish - like smell; a kind of not -  of - the - newest Poor - John . 	a fish: he smells like a fish: a very old and fish - like smell; a kind that’s not like the freshest small fish . 
a strange fish ! 	a strange fish ! 
when they will not give a dolt to relieve a lame beggar ,  they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian . 	when they won’t give a penny to relieve a lame beggar ,  they will lay out ten dollars to see a dead Indian . 
legged like a man ,  and his fins like arms ! 	he has legs like a man ,  and his fins look like arms ! 
warm o'my troth ! 	warm ,  honestly ! 
I do now let loose my opinion; hold it no longer: this is no fish ,  but an islander that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt . 	I now give my opinion: hold it no longer; this is no fish ,  but an islander ,  that has lately been struck by lightning . 
thunder] [Thunder] Alas ,  the storm is come again ! 	thunder] Alas ,  the storm has come again ! 
I will here ,  shroud till the dregs of the storm be past . 	I will stay covered here until the last of the storm is over . 
this is a scurvy tune too: but here's my comfort . 	this is a nasty tune too: but here's my comfort . 
what's the matter ? 	what's the matter ? 
have we devils here ? 	do we have devils here ? 
I have not scaped drowning to be afeard now of your four legs; for it hath been said ,  ‘As proper a man as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground . ’ And it shall be said so again ,  while Stephano breathes at nostrils . 	I have not escaped drowning to be afraid now of your four legs; because it has been said ,   “ As proper a man as ever went on four legs can’t make him give ground ” : and it shall be said so again ,  while Stephano still breathes through His nostrils . 
this is some monster of the isle with four legs ,  who hath got ,  as I tak it ,  an ague . 	this is some monster of the island with four legs ,  who has got ,  as I take it ,  malaria . 
where the devil should he learn our language ? 	where the devil should he learn our language ? 
he's in his fit now ,  and does not talk after the wisest . 	he's having a fit now and doesn’t talk sense . 
four legs and two voices—a most delicate monster ! 	four legs and two voices; a most delicate monster ! 
his forward voice now is to speak well of his friend; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract . 	his forward voice now is speaking well of his friend; his backward voice is uttering dirty speeches and insults . 
If all the wine in my bottle will recover him ,  I will help his ague . 	If all the wine in my bottle will help him ,  I will help his malaria . 
come . 	come . 
caliban drinks] Amen ! 	amen ! 
I will pour some in [Caliban drinks] thy other mouth . 	I will pour some in your other mouth . 
stephano ! 	stephano ! 
doth thy other mouth call me ? 	does your other mouth call me ? 
If thou beest Trinculo ,  come forth . 	If you are Trinculo ,  come out . 
he pulls Trinculo out from under Caliban's cloak by the legs] Thou art very Trinculo indeed ! 	you are very Trinculo indeed ! 
how cam'st thou to be the siege of this moon - calf ? 	how did you come to be the attack of this dreamer ? 
can he vent Trinculos ? 	can he spit out Trinculos ? 
I took him to be killed with a thunder - stroke . 	I took him to be killed with lightning . 
but art thou not drowned ,  Stephano ? 	but aren’t you drowned ,  Stephano ? 
I hope now thou art not drowned . 	I hope now you aren’t drowned . 
Is the storm overblown ? 	hass the storm blown over ? 
I hid me under the dead moon - calf's gaberdine for fear of the storm . 	I hid myself under the dead dreamer’s covering because I was afraid of the storm . 
and art thou living ,  Stephano ? 	and are you living ,  Stephano ? 
o Stephano ,  two Neapolitans scaped ! 	o Stephano ,  two Neapolitans escaped ! 
prithee ,  do not turn me about; my stomach is not constant . 	please ,  don’t turn me around so much: my stomach is upset . 
to Trinculo] How didst thou ’scape ? 	how did you escape ? 
how cam'st thou hither ? 	how did you come here ? 
swear by this bottle how thou cam'st hither . 	swear by this bottle how you came here—I escaped on a barrel of wine ,  which the sailors heaved overboard ,  by this bottle ! 
I escaped upon a butt of sack which the sailors heaved o'erboard—by this bottle ,  which I made of the bark of a tree with mine own hands since I was cast ashore . 	which I made of the bark of a tree ,  with my own hands ,  since I was cast ashore . 
I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject ,  for the liquor is not earthly . 	I'll swear on that bottle to be your true subject ,  because that liquor is not earthly . 
here ,  kiss the book . 	passing the bottle] Here ,  kiss the book [gives TRINCULO a drink] . 
though thou canst swim like a duck ,  thou art made like a goose . 	though you can swim like a duck ,  you are made like a goose . 
hast thou not dropped from heaven ? 	have you not dropped from heaven ? 
out o'th’ moon ,  I do assure thee: I was the man i'th’ moon when time was . 	out of the moon ,  I assure you: I was the Man in the Moon ,  a long time ago . 
the man i'th’ moon ? 	the Man in the Moon ! 
I'll show thee every fertile inch o'th’ island; And I will kiss thy foot . 	I'll show you every fertile inch of the island; And I will kiss your foot . 
I prithee ,  be my god . 	please ,  be my god . 
come on then; down ,  and swear . 	come on ,  then; down ,  and swear . 
I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy - headed monster . 	I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy - headed monster . 
a most scurvy monster ! 	a most nasty monster ! 
I could find in my heart to beat him— Come ,  kiss . 	I could find it in my heart to beat him , — Come ,  kiss . 
I'll show thee the best springs; I'll pluck thee berries; I'll fish for thee ,  and get thee wood enough . 	I'll show you the best springs; I'll pluck you berries; I'll fish for you ,  and get you enough wood . 
a plague upon the tyrant that I serve ! 	a plague on the tyrant that I serve ! 
I'll bear him no more sticks ,  but follow thee ,  Thou wondrous man . 	I'll carry no more sticks for him ,  but follow you ,  You amazing man . 
a most ridiculous monster ,  to make a wonder of a poor drunkard ! 	a most ridiculous monster ,  to make a a poor drunkard amazing ! 
I prithee ,  let me bring thee where crabs grow; And I with my long nails will dig thee pignuts ,  Show thee a jay's nest ,  and instruct thee how To snare the nimble marmoset ,  I'll bring thee To clustering filberts ,  and sometimes I'll get thee Young sea - mews from the rock . 	please ,  let me bring you where crabs grow; And I will dig you peanuts with my long nails; I’ll show you a bird's nest ,  and teach you how To catch the nimble monkey; I'll bring you To clustering filbert nuts ,  and sometimes I'll get you Young falcons from the rock . 
wilt thou go with me ? 	will you go with me ? 
sings drunkenly] Farewell ,  master ,  farewell ,  farewell ! 	goodbye ,  master; goodbye ,  goodbye ! 
no more dams I'll make for fish Nor fetch in firing At requiring ,  Nor scrape trenchering ,  nor wash dish ’Ban ,  ’Ban ,  Cacaliban Has a new master—get a new man ! 	I'll make no more mothers for fish; Or fetch in firing wood When asked to ,  Or scrape dishes ,  or wash dishes; 'Ban 'Ban ,  Ca—Caliban ,  Has a new master—Get a new man . 
freedom high - day ! 	freedom ,  high day ! 
high - day ,  freedom ! 	high - day ,  freedom ! 
freedom ,  high - day ,  freedom ! 	freedom ,  high - day ,  freedom ! 
o brave monster ! 	o brave monster ! 
lead the way . 	lead the way . 
this my mean task Would be as heavy to me as odious ,  but The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead And makes my labours pleasures . 	this mean task of mine Would be as heavy to me as hateful ,  except that The mistress I serve makes alive what's dead ,  And makes my labors pleasurable: Oh ! 
o ,  she is Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed ,  And he's composed of harshness . 	she is Ten times more gentle than her crabby father ,  And he's made of harshness . 
I forget ,  But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours ,  Most busil'est ,  when I do it . 	I forget: But these sweet thoughts even refresh my work ,  Keep me very busy ,  at least when I do it . 
o most dear mistress ,  The sun will set before I shall discharge What I must strive to do . 	o most dear mistress ,  The sun will set before I finish What I must work to do . 
If you'll sit down I'll bear your logs the while . 	If you'll sit down ,  I'll carry your logs the while . 
pray ,  give me that; I'll carry it to the pile . 	please give me that; I'll carry it to the pile . 
It would become me As well as it does you; and I should do it With much more ease ,  for my good will is to it ,  And yours it is against . 	It would be as natural to me As it is to you: and I should do it Much more easily ,  because my good will is in it ,  And yours is against it . 
aside] Poor worm ,  thou art infected ! 	aside] Poor worm ! 
you look wearily . 	you look tired . 
no ,  noble mistress ,  ’tis fresh morning with me When you are by at night . 	no ,  noble mistress; it is fresh morning with me When you are near at night . 
I do beseech you— Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers— What is your name ? 	please— Chiefly that I might say it in my prayers— What is your name ? 
miranda . 	miranda—O my father ! 
o my father ,  I have broke your hest to say so ! 	I have broken his command not to say so . 
admired Miranda ! 	admired Miranda ! 
Indeed the top of admiration ,  worth What's dearest to the world ! 	Indeed ,  the top of admiration; worth What's dearest to the world ! 
but you ,  O you ,  So perfect and so peerless ,  are created Of every creature's best ! 	so perfect and so peerless ,  are created Out of every creature's best virtues . 
but I prattle Something too wildly ,  and my father's precepts I therein do forget . 	but I jabber on A little too wildly ,  and there I am forgetting My father's lessons . 
do you love me ? 	do you love me ? 
I ,  Beyond all limit of what else i'th’ world ,  Do love ,  prize ,  honour you . 	I ,  Beyond all limit of whatever else in the world ,  Do love ,  prize ,  honor you . 
weeping] I am a fool [weeping] I am a fool To weep at what I am glad of . 	I am a fool To cry at what I am happy about . 
aside] Fair encounter [aside] Fair encounter Of two most rare affections ! 	aside] Fair meeting Of two most rare loves ! 
heavens rain grace On that which breeds between ’em ! 	heavens rain grace On that which grows between them ! 
wherefore weep you ? 	why do you cry ? 
at mine unworthiness that dare not offer What I desire to give ,  and much less take What I shall die to want . 	at my unworthiness ,  that dares not offer to you What I desire to give you ,  or much less take What I shall die to want from you . 
but this is trifling ,  And all the more it seeks to hide itself The bigger bulk it shows . 	but this is a little thing; And it seeks to hide itself all the more ,  It shows how big it is . 
hence ,  bashful cunning ! 	here ,  bashful cunning ! 
and prompt me ,  plain and holy innocence ! 	and prompt me ,  plain and holy innocence ! 
I am your wife ,  if you will marry me . 	I am your wife ,  if you will marry me; If not ,  I'll die your virgin . 
If not ,  I'll die your maid: to be your fellow You may deny me ,  but I'll be your servant Whether you will or no . 	you may deny me To be your friend; but I'll be your servant ,  Whether you will want me or not . 
my mistress ,  dearest; And I thus humble ever . 	my mistress ,  dearest; And I am humble forever . 
my husband then ? 	my husband ,  then ? 
ay ,  with a heart as willing As bondage e'er of freedom: here's my hand . 	yes ,  with a heart as willing As slavery was ever willing of freedom: here's my hand . 
and mine ,  with my heart in't ,  and now farewell Till half an hour hence . 	and mine ,  with my heart in it: and now goodbye Until half an hour later . 
a thousand thousand ! 	a thousand thousand ! 
I'll to my book ,  For yet ere supper - time must I perform Much business appertaining . 	I'll go to my book; Because still ,  before supper time ,  I must complete A lot of business relating to these two . 
servant - monster ? 	servant - monster ! 
the folly of this island ! 	the folly of this island ! 
they say there's but five upon this isle: we are three of them; if th'other two be brained like us ,  the state totters . 	they say there's only five on this island; we’re three of them; if the other two are brained like us ,  the state shakes . 
where should they be set else ? 	where else should they be set ? 
he were a brave mon -  ster indeed ,  if they were set in his tail My man - monster hath drowned his tongue in sack . 	he would be a brave monster indeed ,  if they were set in his tail . 
by this light ,  thou shalt be my lieutenant ,  monster ,  or my standard . 	you shall be my lieutenant ,  monster ,  or my main officer . 
your lieutenant ,  if you list ,  he's no standard . 	your lieutenant ,  if you like; he's no main officer . 
we'll not run ,  Monsieur Monster . 	we'll not run ,  Monsieur monster . 
nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs and yet say nothing neither . 	or leave either: but you'll lie like dogs ,  and still say nothing neither . 
moon - calf ,  speak once in thy life ,  if thou beest a good moon - calf . 	dreamer ,  speak once in your life ,  if you are a good dreamer . 
how does thy honour ? 	how does your honor ? 
let me lick thy shoe . 	let me lick your shoe . 
I'll not serve him; he's not valiant . 	I won’t serve him: he’s not valiant . 
why ,  thou debauched fish ,  thou ,  was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much sack as I to - day ? 	why ,  you deboshed fish you ,  was there ever a coward that has drunk so much sack as I have today ? 
wilt thou tell a monstrous lie ,  being but half a fish and half a monster ? 	will you tell a monstrous lie ,  being only half fish and half a monster ? 
to Stephano] Lo ,  how he mocks me ! 	look ,  how he mocks me ! 
wilt thou let him ,  my lord ? 	will you let him ,  my lord ? 
bite him to death ,  I [to Stephano] Lo ,  lo ,  again ! 	look ,  look again ! 
bite him to death ,  I prithee . 	bite him to death ,  please . 
the poor monster's my subject ,  and he shall not suffer indignity . 	the poor monster's my subject ,  and he shall not suffer indignity . 
I thank my noble lord . 	I thank my noble lord . 
wilt thou be pleased to hearken once again to the suit I made to thee ? 	will it please you to listen once again to the favor I asked you ? 
as I told thee before ,  I am subject to a tyrant ,  a sorcerer ,  that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island . 	as I told you before ,  I am subject to a tyrant ,  sorcerer ,  that has cheated me of the island by his cunning . 
thou liest . 	you lie . 
trinculo ,  if you trouble him any more in's tale ,  by this hand ,  I will supplant some of your teeth . 	trinculo ,  if you trouble him any more in his tale ,  by this hand ,  I will displace some of your teeth . 
why ,  I said nothing . 	why ,  I said nothing . 
thou shalt be lord of it ,  and I'll server thee . 	you shall be lord of it ,  and I'll serve you . 
how now shall this be compassed ? 	how shall this be done ? 
canst thou bring me to the party ? 	can you bring me to the party ? 
thou liest; thou canst not . 	you lie: you can’t . 
what a pied ninny's this ! 	what a drunken imbecile is this ! 
trinculo ,  run into no further danger: interrupt the monster one word further ,  and ,  by this hand ,  I'll turn my mercy out o'doors and make a stockfish of thee . 	trinculo ,  run into no further danger: interrupt the monster one word more and ,  I swear ,  I'll turn you out of doors ,  and make a dried fish out of you . 
why ,  what did I ? 	why ,  what did I do ? 
I did nothing . 	I did nothing . 
I'll go farther off . 	I'll go farther away . 
didst thou not say he lied ? 	didn’t you say he lied ? 
thou liest . 	you lie . 
do I so ? 	did I ? 
take thou that . 	take that . 
beating Trinculo] As you like [Beating Trinculo] As you like this ,  give me the lie another time . 	as you like this ,  give me the lie again . 
ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ,  ha ! 
beat him enough; after a little time I'll beat him too . 	beat him enough: after a little time ,  I'll beat him too . 
to Trinculo] Stand farther . 	stand farther away . —Come on ,  continue . 
remember First to possess his books ,  for without them He's but a sot ,  as I am ,  nor hath not One spirit to command—they all do hate him As rootedly as I . 	remember To possess his books first ,  because ,  without them ,  He's only a fool ,  as I am ,  and hasn’t One spirit to command: they all hate him As deeply as I do . 
Is it so brave as lass ? 	Is it so brave a girl ? 
dost thou like the plot ,  Trinculo ? 	do you like the plot ,  Trinculo ? 
excellent . 	excellent . 
ay ,  on mine honour . 	yes ,  on my honor . 
thou mak'st me merry; I am full of pleasure . 	you make me happy: I am full of pleasure . 
at thy request ,  monster ,  I will do reason ,  any reason . 	at your request ,  monster ,  I will do reason ,  any reason . 
come on ,  Trinculo ,  let us sing . 	come on ,  Trinculo ,  let us sing . 
flout ’em and scout ’em ,  And scout ’em and flout ’em Thought is free . 	flout them and scout them; and scout them and flout them: Thought is free . 
that's not the tune . 	that's not the tune . 
what is this same ? 	what is this noise ? 
this is the tune of our catch ,  played by the picture of Nobody . 	this is the tune of our song ,  played by the picture of Nobody . 
o ,  forgive me my sins ! 	o ,  forgive me my sins ! 
art thou afeared ? 	are you afraid ? 
no ,  monster ,  not I . 	no ,  monster ,  not me . 
sometimes a thousand twangling instruments Will hum about mine ears ,  and sometime voices That ,  if I then had waked after long sleep ,  Will make me sleep again: and then ,  in dreaming ,  The clouds methought would open and show riches Ready to drop upon me ,  that when I waked I cried to dream again . 	sometimes a thousand twanging instruments Will hum about my ears; and sometimes voices ,  That ,  if I then had wakened after long sleep ,  Will make me sleep again: and then ,  in dreaming ,  The clouds I thought would open and show riches Ready to drop on me; that ,  when I wakened ,  I cried to dream again . 
this will prove a brave kingdom to me ,  where I shall have my music for nothing . 	this will prove a brave kingdom to me ,  where I shall have my music for nothing . 
when Prospero is destroyed . 	when Prospero is destroyed . 
he lays it on . 	he lays it on . 
wilt come ? 	will you come ? 
I'll follow ,  Stephano . 	I'll follow ,  Stephano . 
by your patience ,  I needs must rest me . 	be patient ,  I have to rest . 
old lord ,  I cannot blame thee ,  Who am myself attached with weariness ,  To th’ dulling of my spirits . 	old lord ,  I can’t blame you . 
sit down and rest . 	I am so exhausted My spirits are dulled; sit down and rest . 
well ,  let him go . 	well ,  let him go . 
aside to Sebastian] I am right glad that he's so out [aside to Sebastian] I am right glad that he's so out of hope . 	I am very glad that he's so out of hope . 
do not for one repulse forgo the purpose That you resolved t'effect . 	don’t ,  for one denial ,  lose the action That you swore to do . 
aside to Antonio] The next advantage [aside to Antonio] The next advantage Will we take throughly . 	we will take the next Advantage thoroughly . 
what harmony is this ? 	what music is this ? 
my good friends ,  hark ! 	my good friends ,  listen ! 
marvellous sweet music ! 	marvelous sweet music ! 
give us kind keepers ,  heavens ! 	give us kind keepers ,  heavens ! 
what were these ? 	what were these ? 
a living drollery . 	a living puppet show . 
now I will believe That there are unicorns ,  that in Arabia There is one tree ,  the phoenix’ throne ,  one phoenix At this hour reigning there . 	now I will believe That there are unicorns; that in Arabia There is one tree ,  the throne of the phoenix; one phoenix Reigning there now . 
If in Naples I should report this now ,  would they believe me’ If I should say I saw such islanders ? 	If I should report this now in Naples ,  Would they believe me ? 
for certes these are people of the island ,  Who ,  though they are of monstrous shape ,  yet note ,  Their manners are more gentle - kind than of Our human generation you shall find Many ,  nay ,  almost any . 	If I should say ,  I saw similar islanders , — Because ,  truly ,  these are people of the island , — Who ,  though ,  they are of monstrous shape ,  yet ,  notice that Their manners are more gentle than those of Our human generation that you shall find Many ,  no ,  almost any . 
aside] Honest lord ,  [aside] Honest lord ,  Thou hast said well ,  for some of you there present Are worse than devils . 	honest lord ,  What you say is true ,  because some of you there present Are worse than devils . 
aside] Praise in departing . 	praise in departing . 
aside] They vanished strangely . 	they vanished strangely . 
not I . 	not I . 
faith ,  sir ,  you need not fear . 	truly ,  sir ,  you don’t need to be afraid . 
when we were boys ,  Who would believe that there were mountaineers Dewlapped like bulls ,  whose throats had hanging at ’em Wallets of flesh ? 	when we were boys ,  Who would believe that there were mountaineers Covered with dew like bulls ,  who had throats with pockets Of flesh hanging from them ? 
or that there were such men Whose heads stood in their breasts ? 	or that there were similar men Whose heads were in their chests ? 
which now we find Each putter - out of five for one will bring us Good warrant of . 	now we find that One traveler out of five will bring us News about them . 
you are three men of sin ,  whom Destiny ,  That hath to instrument this lower world And what is in't ,  the never - surfeited sea Hath caused to belch up you ,  and on this island Where man doth not inhabit ,  you ’mongst men Being most unfit to live . 	you are three men of sin ,  whom Destiny ,  That has the power over this lower world And what is in it , —has caused the never - satisfied sea to spit up you; and on this island Where man doesn’t live ,  you among men Being most unfit to live . 
I have made you mad ,  And even with suchlike valour men hang and drown Their proper selves . 	I have made you crazy: And even with similar courage ,  men hang and drown Themselves . 
you fools ! 	you fools ! 
If you could hurt ,  Your swords are now too massy for your strengths And will not be uplifted . 	If you could hurt us ,  Your swords are now too heavy for your strengths ,  And won’t be lifted up . 
but remember ,  For that's my business to you ,  that you three From Milan did supplant good Prospero; Exposed unto the sea ,  which hath requit it ,  Him and his innocent child; for which foul deed ,  The powers ,  delaying ,  not forgetting ,  have Incensed the seas and shores ,  yea ,  all the creatures ,  Against your peace . 	but ,  remember— Because that's my business to you , —that you three From Milan replaced good Prospero; Exposed him and his innocent child to the sea ,  Which has repaid it: for which evil deed ,  The powers ,  delaying but not forgetting ,  have Angered the seas and shores ,  yes ,  all the creatures ,  Against your peace of mind . 
I'th’ name of something holy sir ,  why stand you In this strange stare ? 	In the name of something holy ,  sir ,  why stand you here In this strange stare ? 
therefore my son i'th’ ooze is bedded ,  and I'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded ,  And with him there lie mudded . 	therefore my son is embedded in the ooze; and I'll seek him deeper than a piece of lead ever measured How deep the water is ,  and I will lie there with him in the mud . 
but one fiend at a time ,  I'll fight their legions o'er . 	give me only one evil enemy at a time ,  and I'll fight their legions again and again . 
I'll be thy second . 	I'll be right behind you . 
I do beseech you That are of suppler joints ,  follow them swiftly ,  And hinder them from this ecstasy May now provoke them to . 	I beg you ,  Whose joints move easier than mine to follow them swiftly And stop them from what this vision May now provoke them to do . 
to Ferdinand] If I have too austerely punished you ,  [to Ferdinand] If I have too Your compensation makes amends ,  for I Have given you here a third of mine own life— Or that for which I live—who once again I tender to thy hand . 	If I have punished you too harshly ,  Your payment makes up for it ,  because I Have given you here a third of my own life ,  Or the part for which I live ,  who ,  once again ,  I give to you . 
I do believe it Against an oracle . 	I would believe it Against a fortuneteller . 
what ,  Ariel ! 	what ,  Ariel ! 
my industrious servant ,  Ariel ! 	my hard - working servant ,  Ariel ! 
what would my potent master ? 	what would my powerful master like ? 
here I am . 	here I am . 
thou and thy meaner fellows your last service Did worthily perform ,  and I must use you In such another trick . 	you and your meaner fellows performed your last jobs Very well ,  and I must use you In another similar trick . 
presently ? 	right now ? 
ay ,  with a twink . 	yes ,  with a twink . 
before you can say ‘Come’ and ‘Go , ’ And breathe twice and cry ‘So ,  so , ’ Each one ,  tripping on his toe Will be here with mop and mow . 	before you can say ,   “ Come ”  and  “ Go ,  ”  And breathe twice ,  and cry  “ so ,  so ,  ”  Each one ,  tripping on his toe ,  Will be here with tricks and pranks . 
do you love me ,  master ? 	do you love me ,  master ? 
no ? 	no ? 
dearly ,  my delicate Ariel . 	dearly ,  my delicate Ariel . 
do not approach Till thou dost hear me call . 	don’t come near Until you hear me call . 
well ,  I conceive . 	well ,  I understand . 
I warrant you ,  sir; The white cold virgin snow upon my heart Abates the ardour of my liver . 	I promise you ,  sir ,  The cold ,  white ,  virgin snow on my heart Holds back my passion . 
well . — Now come ,  my Ariel ! 	well . — Now come ,  my Ariel ! 
bring a corollary ,  Rather than want a spirit . 	bring a conclusion ,  Rather than need a spirit: appear ,  and quickly . 
appear and pertly ! 	no talking ! 
no tongue ,  all eyes ! 	all eyes ! 
be silent . 	be silent . 
approach ,  rich Ceres ,  her to entertain . 	approach ,  rich Ceres ,  to entertain her . 
a contract of true love to celebrate; And some donation freely to estate On the blest lovers . 	to celebrate a contract of true love ,  And to bestow some free gifts On the blessed lovers . 
tell me ,  heavenly bow ,  If Venus or her son ,  as thou dost know ,  Do now attend the queen . 	tell me ,  heavenly rainbow ,  if you know ,  If Venus the goddess of love or Cupid ,  her son ,  Now wait on the queen ? 
since they did plot The means that dusky Dis my daughter got ,  Her and her blind boy's scandaled company I have forsworn . 	since they plotted With the dark god of the underworld to kidnap my daughter ,  I have sworn not to be in Her and her blind boy's scandalous company . 
of her society Be not afraid . 	don’t be afraid Of her company . 
here thought they to have done Some wanton charm upon this man and miad ,  Whose vows are that no bed - right shall be paid Till Hymen's torch be lighted—but in vain . 	they thought they would do Some naughty charm on this man and maiden ,  Who have vowed that they will not sleep together Until the god of marriage's torch is lit ,  but they thought so in vain . 
high'st queen of state ,  Great Juno ,  comes; I know her by her gait . 	highest Queen of State ,  Great Juno comes; I know her by her walk . 
how does my bounteous sister ? 	how does my generous sister ? 
go with me To bless this twain ,  that they may Prospus be And honoured in their issue . 	go with me To bless these two ,  that they may be prosperous ,  And honored in their children . 
honour ,  riches ,  marriage - blessing ,  Long continuance ,  and increasing ,  Hourly joys be still upon you ! 	honor ,  riches ,  marriage - blessing ,  Long life ,  and many children ,  Hourly joys be always yours ! 
juno sings her blessings upon you . 	juno sings her blessings on you . 
earth's increase ,  foison plenty ,  Barns and garners never empty ,  Vines and clust'ring bunches growing ,  Plants and goodly burden bowing; Spring come to you at the farthest In the very end of harvest ! 	earth's increase ,  plenty of feasting ,  Barns and storage for game never empty; Vines growing with clustering bunches of grapes; Plants bowing with heavy loads of fruit ; Spring come to you as long as possible ,  Even to the very end of harvest ! 
scarcity and want shall shun you ,  Ceres’ blessing so is on you . 	scarcity and want shall ignore you; Ceres' blessing so be on you . 
spirits ,  which by mine art I have from their confines call'd to enact My present fancies . 	spirits ,  which ,  by my magic ,  I have called from their borders to enact My present wishes . 
sweet now ,  silence ! 	sweet now ,  silence ! 
your nymphs ,  called naiads of the wandering brooks ,  With your sedged crowns and over - harmless looks ,  Leave your crisp channels and on this green land Answer your summons; Juno does command . 	you nymphs ,  called Water Nymphs ,  of the winding brooks ,  With your oat - edged crowns and always harmless looks ,  Leave your fresh waters ,  and answer your summons To this green land: Juno commands you . 
you sunburnt sicklemen ,  of August weary ,  Come hither from the furrow and be merry; Make holiday ,  your rye - straw hats put on ,  And these fresh nymphs encounter every one In country footing . 	you sun - burned reapers ,  tired of August ,  Come here from the rows you have plowed and be happy: Make it a holiday: put on your rye - straw hats ,  And meet every one pf these fresh nymphs In country dancing . 
to the spirits] Well done ! 	well done ! 
no more ! 	avoid; no more ! 
these our actors ,  As I foretold you ,  were all spirits ,  and Are melted into air ,  into thin air; And ,  like the baseless fabric of this vision ,  The cloud - capped towers ,  the gorgeous palaces ,  The solemn temples ,  the great globe itself ,  Yea ,  all which it inherit ,  shall dissolve ,  And ,  like this insubstantial pageant faded ,  Leave not a rack behind . 	these our actors ,  As I told you before ,  were all spirits and Have melted into air ,  into thin air: And ,  like the invisible fabric of this vision ,  The cloud - capped towers ,  the gorgeous palaces ,  The solemn temples ,  the great world itself ,  Yes ,  all who inherit it ,  shall dissolve And leave not even a clue behind ,  As this pageant of no substance faded . 
be not disturbed with my infirmity . 	don’t be disturbed by my weakness . 
we wish your peace . 	we wish your peace . 
thy thoughts I cleave to . 	I hang onto your thoughts . 
what's thy pleasure ? 	what's your pleasure ? 
spirit ,  We must prepare to meet with Caliban . 	spirit ,  We must prepare to meet with Caliban . 
say again: where didst thou leave these variets ? 	tell me again ,  where did you leave these varlets ? 
I told you ,  sir ,  they were red - hot with drinking; So fun of valour that they smote the air For breathing in their faces ,  beat the ground For kissing of their feet; yet always bending Towards their project . 	I told you ,  sir ,  they were red - hot with drinking; So full of smoothness that they beat the air For breathing in their faces; beat the ground For kissing their feet; yet always bending Towards their project . 
this was well done ,  my bird . 	well done ,  my bird . 
a devil ,  a born devil ,  on whose nature Nurture can never stick; on whom my pains ,  Humanely taken ,  all ,  all lost ,  quite lost ,  And ,  as with age his body uglier grows ,  So his mind cankers . 	a devil ,  a born devil ,  on whose nature Kindness can never stick; on whom my pains ,  Taken humanely are all ,  all lost ,  quite lost; And as his body grows uglier with age ,  So his mind is diseased . 
I will plague them all ,  Even to roaring . 	I will plague them all ,  Even to the point of their roaring . 
come ,  hang them on this line . 	come ,  hang them on this line . 
monster ,  you fairy ,  which you say is a harmless fairy ,  has done little better than played the Jack with us . 	monster ,  your fairy ,  which you say is a harmless fairy ,  has done little better than played us for fools . 
monster ,  I do smell all horse - piss ,  at which my nose is in great indignation . 	monster ,  I smell all horse - piss ,  at which my nose is highly offended . 
If I should take a displeasure against you ,  look you— Thou wert but a lost monster . 	If I should take a displeasure against you ,  look you , — You were only a lost monster . 
I will fetch off my bottle ,  though I be o'er ears for my labour . 	I will fetch off my bottle ,  although I’ll be head over heels in muck for my efforts . 
prithee ,  my king ,  be quiet . 	please ,  my king ,  be quiet . 
do that good mischief which may make this island Thine own for ever ,  and I ,  thy Caliban ,  For aye thy foot - licker . 	do that good deed which may make this island Your own forever ,  and I ,  your Caliban ,  Your foot - licker forever . 
seeing the apparel] O King Stephano ! 	o King Stephano ! 
o peer ! 	o peer ! 
o worthy Stephano ! 	o worthy Stephano ! 
look what a wardrobe here is for thee ! 	look what a wardrobe is here for you ! 
let it alone ,  thou fool; it is but trash . 	let it alone ,  you fool; it is only trash . 
putting on a garment] O ,  ho ,  monster ! 	o ,  ho ,  monster ! 
thy grace shall have it . 	your Grace shall have it . 
the dropsy drown this fool ! 	the swelling disease drown this fool ! 
what do you mean To dote thus on such luggage ? 	what do you mean By being so stupidly fond like this on such goods ? 
let't alone ,  And do the murder first . 	let's get going And do the murder first . 
If he awake ,  From toe to crown he'll fill our skins with pinches ,  Make us strange stuff . 	If he awakens ,  He'll fill our skins with pinches from toe to head; Turn us into strange stuff . 
I will have none on't . 	I’ll have none of it . 
we shall lose our time ,  And all be turned to barnacles ,  or to apes With foreheads villanous low . 	we shall lose our opportunity ,  And we’ll all be turned into geese ,  or into apes With villainous ,  low foreheads . 
go to ,  carry this . 	go on; carry this . 
and this . 	and this . 
ay ,  and this . 	yes ,  and this . 
they load Caliban with the apparel] [They load Caliban with the apparel] Hey ,  Mountain ,  hey ! 	hey ,  Mountain ,  hey ! 
silver ! 	silver ! 
I there it goes ,  Silver ! 	there it goes ,  Silver ! 
fury ,  Fury ! 	fury ,  Fury ! 
there ,  Tyrant ,  there ! 	there ,  Tyrant ,  there ! 
to Ariel] Go ,  charge my goblins that they grind their [to Ariel] Go ,  charge my goblins that they grind their joints With dry convulsions ,  shorten up their sinews ,  With aged cramps ,  and more pinch - spotted make them Than pard or cat o'mountain . 	go ,  order my goblins that they torment their joints With dry convulsions; shorten up their muscles With long - lasting cramps ,  and make them more spotted With pinches than a leopard ,  or mountain cat . 
hark ,  they roar ! 	listen ,  they roar . 
let them be hunted soundly . 	let them be hunted soundly . 
how's the day ? 	what time is it ? 
on the sixth hour; at which time ,  my lord ,  You said our work should cease . 	six o’clock ,  at which time ,  my lord ,  You said our work should end . 
I did say so When first I raised the tempest . 	I said so When first I raised the storm . 
say ,  my spirit ,  How fares the King and's followers ? 	tell me ,  my spirit ,  How are the King and his followers doing ? 
confined together In the same fashion as you gave in charge ,  Just as you left them; all prisoners ,  sir In the lime - grove which weather - fends your cell; They cannot budge till your release . 	confined together In the same fashion as you told me; Just as you left them: all prisoners ,  sir ,  In the grove of trees which weatherproofs your dwelling; They can’t budge until you release them . 
dost thou think so ,  spirit ? 	do you think so ,  spirit ? 
mine would ,  sir ,  were I human . 	mine would ,  sir ,  if I were human . 
go release them ,  Ariel . 	go release them ,  Ariel . 
my charms I'll break ,  their senses I'll restore ,  And they shall be themselves . 	I'll break my spells ,  I'll restore their senses ,  And they shall be themselves again . 
I'll fetch them ,  sir . 	I'll fetch them ,  sir . 
ye elves of hills ,  brooks ,  standing lakes and groves ,  And ye that on the sands with printless foot Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him When he comes back; you demi - puppets that By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make ,  Whereof the ewe not bites ,  and you whose pastime Is to make midnight mushrooms ,  that rejoice To hear the solemn curfew; by whose aid ,  Weak masters though ye be ,  I have bedimmed The noontide sun ,  called forth the mutinous winds ,  And ’twixt the green sea and the azured vault Set roaring war—to the dread rattling thunder Have I given fire ,  and rifted Jove's stout oak With his own bolt; the strong - based promontory Have I made shake ,  and by the spurs plucked up The pine and cedar: graves at my command Have waked their sleepers ,  oped ,  and let ’em forth By my so potent art . 	you elves of hills ,  brooks ,  standing lakes ,  and groves; And you that chase the ebbing ocean on the sands Without leaving a foot print ,  and run from him When he comes back; you half - puppets that Make the green ringlets sour by moonshine ,  Where the ewe doesn’t bite; and you whose pastime Is to make midnight mushrooms that are happy To hear the curfew sound; by whose aid , — Weak masters though you are , —I have dimmed The noontide sun ,  called the mutinous winds ,  And set roaring between the green sea and The blue sky: I haven given fire to the dreaded Rattling thunder ,  and split Jove's stout oak With his own lightning bolt: I have made the strong - based Land that stuck out into the ocean shake; and plucked up The pine and cedar by the roots: at my command ,  graves Have awakened the dead ,  opened the coffins ,  and Let them walk out by my so powerful magic . 
solemn music] [Solemn music] [to Alonso] A solemn air ,  and the best comforter [to Alonso] A solemn To an unsettled fancy ,  cure thy brains ,  Now useless ,  boiled within thy skull . 	a solemn song ,  and the best comforter To an unsettled mind ,  cure for your brains ,  Now useless ,  boiled inside your skull ! 
to Sebastian and Antonio] There stand ,  [to Sebastian and Antonio] There stand ,  For you are spell - stopped . — Holy Gonzalo ,  honourable man ,  Mine eyes ,  even sociable to the show of thine ,  Fall fellowly drops . 	holy Gonzalo ,  honorable man ,  My eyes ,  even sociable to the show of your eyes ,  Cry like yours . 
aside] The charm dissolves apace ,  [aside] The charm dissolves apace ,  And as the morning steals upon the night ,  Melting the darkness ,  so their rising senses Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle Their clearer reason . —O good Gonzalo ,  My true preserver ,  and a loyal sir To him you follow'st ! 	the charm dissolves quickly; And as the morning steals on into the night ,  Melting the darkness ,  so their rising senses Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that cloud Their clearer reason . —O good Gonzalo ! 
aside] Their understanding [Aside] Their understanding Begins to swell ,  and the approaching tide Will shortly fill the reasonable shore That now lie foul and muddy . 	their understanding Begins to increase ,  and the approaching tide of understanding Will shortly fill the reasonable shores of their minds That are now corrupt and muddy . 
where the bee sucks ,  there suck I: In a cowslip's bell I lie; There I couch when owls do cry . 	where the bee sucks ,  there suck I: In a flower’s bell I lie; There I sleep when owls cry . 
why ,  that's my dainty Ariel ! 	why ,  that's my delicate Ariel ! 
I drink the air before me ,  and return Or ere your pulse twice beat . 	I drink in the air before me ,  and return Before your pulse beats twice . 
all torment ,  trouble ,  wonder ,  and amazement Inhabits here . 	all torment ,  trouble ,  wonder and amazement Live here . 
some heavenly power guide us Out of this fearful country ! 	some heavenly power guide us Out of this fearful country ! 
to Gonzalo] First ,  noble friend ,  [to Gonzalo] First ,  noble friend ,  Let me embrace thine age ,  whose honour cannot Be measured or confined . 	first ,  noble friend ,  Let me embrace you ,  whose honor can’t Be measured or confined . 
he embraces Gonzalo] [He embraces Gonzalo] Whither this be Or be not ,  I'll not swear . 	I won’t swear whether this is Or is not true . 
the devil speaks in him . 	the devil speaks in him . 
no . 	no . 
to Antonio] For you ,  most wicked sir ,  whom to call [to Antonio] For you ,  most wicked sir ,  whom to call brother Would even infect my mouth ,  I do forgive Thy rankest fault ,  all of them ,  and require My dukedom of thee ,  which perforce I know Thou must restore . 	because you ,  most wicked sir ,  whom to call brother Would even infect my mouth ,  I forgive Your worst fault ,  all of them ,  and require My dukedom from you ,  which I know You must restore to me by necessity . 
If thou beest Prospero ,  Give us particulars of thy preservation; How thou hast met us here ,  who three hours since Were wrecked upon this shore; where I have lost— How sharp the point of this remembrance is ! — My dear son Ferdinand . 	If you are Prospero ,  Give us details of how you were saved; How you have met us here ,  who were wrecked On this shore three hours ago ,  where I have lost , — How sharp the point of this memory is ! — My dear son Ferdinand . 
I am woe for't ,  sir . 	I am very sorry about it ,  sir . 
Irreparable is the loss ,  and patience Says it is past her cure . 	the loss cannot be repaid ,  and patience Says it is beyond her cure . 
I rather think You have not sought her help ,  of whose soft grace For the like loss I have her sovereign aid ,  And rest myself content . 	I rather think You haven’t sought her help ,  by whose soft grace ,  I have received her royal aid for a similar loss ,  And I am at peace . 
you the like loss ? 	you a similar loss ! 
as great to me as late; and supportable To make the dear loss have I means much weaker Than you may call to comfort you ,  for I Have lost my daughter . 	as great to me ,  as recently; and ,  to make the dear Loss tolerable ,  I have much weaker means Than you have to comfort you ,  because I Have lost my daughter . 
a daughter ? 	a daughter ? 
when did you lose your daughter ? 	when did you lose your daughter ? 
In this last tempest . 	In this last storm . 
I perceive these lords At this encounter do so much admire That they devour their reason and scarce think Their eyes do offices of truth ,  these words Are natural breath . 	I see these lords So much admire at this meeting That they eat their own common sense ,  and scarcely think Their eyes tell them the truth . 
but howsoe'er you have Been jostled from your senses ,  know for certain That I am Prospero ,  and that very Duke Which was thrust forth of Milan ,  who most strangely Upon this shore ,  where you were wrecked ,  was landed To be the lord on't . 	their words Are natural breath ,  but ,  however you have Been jostled out of your senses ,  know for certain That I am Prospero ,  and that very duke Who was thrown out of Milan ,  who most strangely landed On this shore ,  where you were wrecked ,  To be the lord of it . 
no more yet of this ,  For ‘tis a chronicle of day by day ,  Not a relation for a breakfast ,  nor Befitting this first meeting . 	no more yet about this; Because it is a story of day by day ,  Not a story for a breakfast or Befitting this first meeting . 
here have I few attendants And subjects none abroad . 	here I have few attendants And subjects none . 
pray you ,  look in . 	please ,  look in . 
my dukedom since you have given me again ,  I will requite you with as good a thing; At least bring forth a wonder to content ye As much as me my dukedom . 	since you have given me my dukedom again ,  I will repay you with just as good a thing; At least bring out a wonder ,  to make you as happy As I am to have my dukedom . 
sweet lord ,  you play me false . 	sweet lord ,  you lie to me . 
no ,  my dear'st love ,  I would not for the world . 	no ,  my dearest love ,  I wouldn’t for the world . 
yes ,  for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle ,  And I would call it fair play . 	yes ,  you would argue for a score of kingdoms ,  And I would call it fair play . 
If this prove A vision of the island ,  one dear son Shall I twice lose . 	If this proves to be A vision of the island ,  I shall lose One dear son twice . 
a most high miracle . 	a most high miracle ! 
now all the blessings Of a glad father compass thee about ! 	now all the blessings Of a glad father are all around you ! 
arise and say how thou cam'st here . 	stand up ,  and say how you came here . 
o wonder ! 	o ,  wonder ! 
how many goodly creatures are there here ! 	how many goodly creatures are there here ! 
how beauteous mankind is ! 	how beautiful mankind is ! 
o brave new world That has such people in't ! 	o brave new world That has such people in it ! 
tis new to thee . 	It’s new to you . 
to Ferdinand] What is this maid with whom thou [to Ferdinand] What is this maid with whom thou wast at play ? 	who is this maiden with whom you were at play ? 
sir ,  she is mortal; But by immortal providence she's mine . 	sir ,  she is mortal; But ,  by immortal Providence ,  she's mine . 
I chose her when I could not ask my father For his advice ,  nor thought I had one . 	I chose her when I couldn’t ask my father For his advice ,  or didn’t think I had a father . 
she Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan ,  Of whom so often I have heard renown ,  But never saw before; of whom I have Received a second life; and second father This lady makes him to me . 	she Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan ,  Who I have so often heard has a great reputation ,  But that I never saw before; of whom I have Received a second life: and this lady makes him A second father to me . 
I am hers . 	I am hers: Only ,  Oh ! 
but O ,  how oddly will it sound that I Must ask my child forgiveness ! 	how oddly it will sound that I Must ask my child for forgiveness ! 
I have inly wept ,  Or should have spoke ere this . 	I have wept inside ,  Or should have spoken before this . 
I say amen ,  Gonzalo ! 	I say ,  Amen ,  Gonzalo ! 
was Milan thrust from Milan ,  that his issue Should become kings of Naples ? 	was the Duke of Milan thrown out of Milan ,  that his children Should become kings of Naples ? 
o rejoice Beyond a common joy ! 	o ,  rejoice Beyond a common joy ,  and set it down With gold on lasting pillars . 
and set it down With gold on lasting pillars: in one voyage Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis ,  And Ferdinand ,  her brother ,  found a wife Where he himself was lost; Prospero his dukedom In a poor isle; and all of ourselves ,  When no man was his own [to Ferdinand and Miranda] Give me your hands . 	In one voyage ,  Claribel found her husband at Tunis ,  And Ferdinand ,  her brother ,  found a wife Where he himself was lost; Prospero found his dukedom In a poor island; and all of us found ourselves ,  When no man was in his right minds . 
be it so ! 	let it be so . 
amen ! 	amen ! 
here is more of us ! 	here are more of us . 
I prophesied if a gallows were on land This fellow could not drown . 	I prophesied That ,  if a gallows were on land ,  this fellow could not drown . 
to the Boatswain] Now ,  [to the Boatswain] Now ,  blasphemy ,  That swear'st grace o'erboard: not an oath on shore ? 	now ,  you blasphemer ,  who sent grace overboard with Swearing ,  don’t you have an oath on shore ? 
hast thou no mouth by land ? 	don’t you Have any mouth on land ? 
what is the news ? 	what’s the news ? 
the best news is that we have safely found Our King and company; the next ,  our ship ,  Which but three glasses since we gave out split ,  Is tight and yare and bravely rigged as when We first put out to sea . 	the best news is that we have safely found Our king and company: the next ,  our ship , — Which only three hours ago was wrecked ,  we thought— Is water - tight and ready ,  and bravely rigged as when We first put out to sea . 
aside to Prospero] Sir ,  all this service [aside to Prospero] Sir ,  all this service Have I done since I went . 	sir ,  I have done all this service Since I left you . 
If I did think ,  sir ,  I were well awake I'd strive to tell you . 	If I thought ,  sir ,  that I was well awake ,  I'd try to tell you . 
aside to Ariel] Bravely ,  my diligence . 	bravely ,  my hard worker . 
thou shalt be free . 	you shall be free . 
to Alonso] How fares my gracious sir ? 	how are you ,  my gracious sir ? 
there are yet missing of your company Some few odd lads that you remember not . 	there are still some few odd lads Missing from your company that you forget . 
every man shift for all the rest ,  and let no man take care for himself; for all is but fortune . 	every man is on his own for all the rest ,  and let no man take care for himself ,  because all is only fortune . —Coragio ! 
coragio ,  bully -  monster ,  coragio ! 	bully - monster ,  Coragio ! 
If these be true spies which I wear in my head ,  here's a goodly sight . 	If these are true eyes in my head ,  here's a goodly sight . 
o Setebos ,  these be brave spirits indeed ! 	o Setebos ,  these are brave spirits indeed . 
how fine my master is ! 	how fine my master is ! 
I am afraid He will chastise me . 	I’m afraid He will beat me . 
ha ,  ha ! 	ha ,  ha ! 
what things are these ,  my lord Antonio ? 	what are these things ,  my lord Antonio ? 
will money buy ’em ? 	will money buy them ? 
very like; one of them Is a plain fish ,  and no doubt marketable . 	very likely; one of them Is a plain fish ,  and ,  no doubt ,  marketable . 
I shall be pinched to death . 	I shall be pinched to death . 
Is not this Stephano ,  my drunken butler ? 	Isn’t this Stephano ,  my drunken butler ? 
I have been in such a pickle since I saw you last that ,  I fear me ,  will never out of my bones . 	I have been in similar a pickle since I saw you last that ,  I’m afraid ,  will never get out of my bones . 
I shall not fear fly -  blowing . 	I won’t be afraid of blow flies . 
why ,  how now ,  Stephano ? 	why ,  how is it now ,  Stephano ! 
o ,  touch me not ! 	oh ! 
I am not Stephano ,  but a cramp . 	don’t touch me: I am not Stephano ,  but a cramp . 
you'd be king o's the isle ,  sirrah ? 	you'd be king of the island ,  servant ? 
I should have been a sore one then . 	I should have been a sore one ,  then . 
pointing to Caliban] This is a strange thing as e'er I [pointing to Caliban] This is a strange thing as e'er I look'd on . 	this is as strange a thing as I have ever looked on . 
ay ,  that I will; and I'll be wise hereafter ,  And seek for grace . 	yes ,  I will; and I'll be wise hereafter ,  And seek for grace . 
what a thrice - double ass Was I to take this drunkard for a god ,  And worship this dull fool ! 	what a three times two ass I was ,  to take this drunkard for a god ,  And worship this dull fool ! 
go to ,  away ! 	get going; away ! 
to Stephano and Trinculo] Hence ,  and bestow your lug -  [to Stephano and Trinculo] Hence ,  and bestow your lug -  gage where you found it . 	here ,  and your baggage back where you found it . 
or stole it ,  rather . 	or stole it ,  rather . 
I long To hear the story of your life ,  which must Take the ear strangely . 	I long To hear the story of your life ,  which must Affect the ear strangely . 
lie thou there (throwing down a letter) ,  for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling . 	now ,  you lie there on the path . 
maria once told me she did affect me ,  and I have heard herself come thus near ,  that ,  should she fancy ,  it should be one of my complexion . 	she said if she were interested in someone ,  it would be someone who looked like me . 
besides ,  she uses me with a more exalted respect than anyone else that follows her . 	besides ,  she treats me more respectfully than the other servants . 
what should I think on ’t ? 	what’s the obvious conclusion from that ? 
to be Count Malvolio ! 	just think ,  I could be Count Malvolio ! 
the lady of the Strachy married the yeoman of the wardrobe . 	lady Strachy married her wardrobe manager . 
seven of my people ,  with an obedient start ,  make out for him . 	I’d send seven of my servants to go get him . 
I frown the while ,  and perchance wind up watch ,  or play with my—some rich jewel . 	while I waited ,  I’d frown impatiently ,  and perhaps wind my watch ,  or play with my—with some expensive piece of jewelry I happen to be wearing . 
lips ,  do not move; No man must know .  ” 	I can’t let my lips say his name;  “ No man must know .  ” 
no man must know .  ”  What follows ? 	no man must know .  ”  What comes after that ? 
no man must know .  ”  If this should be thee ,  Malvolio ? 	no man must know .  ”  What if this someone were you ,  Malvolio ? 
I may command where I adore ,  But silence ,  like a Lucrece knife ,  With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore; M . O . A . I . 	but silence ,  like a knife ,  cuts open my heart With strokes that draw no blood . 
doth sway my life .  ”  Nay ,  but first ,  let me see ,  let me see ,  let me see . 	rules my life .  ”  Hmm ,  let me see ,  let me see ,  let me see . 
I may command where I adore .  ”  Why ,  she may command me . 	I may command the one I love .  ”  Well ,  she commands me . 
why ,  this is evident to any formal capacity . 	why ,  anyone can see what this means . 
there is no obstruction in this . 	there’s no ambiguity here . 
If I could make that resemble something in me—Softly ! 	If only I could somehow relate them to me ! 
there is a fair behavior in thee ,  captain ,  And though that nature with a beauteous wall Doth oft close in pollution ,  yet of thee I will believe thou hast a mind that suits With this thy fair and outward character . 	you seem to be a good person ,  captain ,  and although people who look beautiful are often corrupt inside ,  I believe that you have a beautiful mind to go with your good looks and manners . 
I prithee—and I’ll pay thee bounteously— Conceal me what I am ,  and be my aid For such disguise as haply shall become The form of my intent . 	please—and I’ll pay you plenty for this—help me conceal my identity ,  and find me the right disguise so I can look the way I want . 
I’ll serve this duke . 	I want to be this Duke’s servant . 
thou shall present me as an eunuch to him . 	you’ll introduce me to him as a eunuch . 
It may be worth thy pains ,  for I can sing And speak to him in many sorts of music That will allow me very worth his service . 	you won’t be wasting your time ,  because I really can sing and talk to him about many different kinds of music ,  so he’ll be happy to have me in his service . 
be you his eunuch ,  and your mute I’ll be . 	you can be a eunuch ,  but I’ll be mute . 
when my tongue blabs ,  then let mine eyes not see . 	I swear on my life I won’t tell your secret . 
I thank thee . 	thank you . 
lead me on . 	show me the way . 
m ” —Malvolio . 	m ” —Malvolio . 
m ” —why ,  that begins my name . 	m ” —why ,  that’s the first letter in my name . 
m . O . A . I .  ”  This simulation is not as the former ,  and yet to crush this a little ,  it would bow to me ,  for every one of these letters are in my name . 	but if I shake it up a little it’ll work ,  because every one of those letters is in my name . 
soft ,  here follows prose . 	but wait ,  there’s some prose after her poem . 
If this fall into thy hand ,  revolve . 	If this letter falls into your hands ,  think carefully about what it says . 
In my stars I am above thee ,  but be not afraid of greatness . 	by my birth I rank above you ,  but don’t be afraid of my greatness . 
some are born great ,  some achieve greatness ,  and some have greatness thrust upon 'em . 	some are born great ,  some achieve greatness ,  and some have greatness thrust upon them . 
thy Fates open their hands . 	your fate awaits you . 
let thy blood and spirit embrace them . 	accept it in body and spirit . 
and ,  to inure thyself to what thou art like to be ,  cast thy humble slough and appear fresh . 	to get used to the life you’ll most likely be leading soon ,  get rid of your low - class trappings . 
I say ,  remember . 	go ahead . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
she that would alter services with thee ,   The Fortunate Unhappy ”   Daylight and champaign discovers not more . 	signed ,  she who would be your servant ,      The Fortunate Unhappy .  ”  This is as clear as sunlight in an open field . 
this is open . 	I’ll do it . 
I will be proud ,  I will read politic authors ,  I will baffle Sir Toby ,  I will wash off gross acquaintance ,  I will be point -  devise the very man . 	I’ll be vain and proud ,  I’ll read up on politics ,  I’ll insult Sir Toby ,  I’ll get rid of my lower - class friends ,  and I’ll be the perfect man for her . 
I do not now fool myself ,  to let imagination jade me ,  for every reason excites to this ,  that my lady loves me . 	I know I’m not fooling myself ,  or letting myself get carried away by my imagination ,  because every clue points to the fact that Lady Olivia loves me . 
she did commend my yellow stockings of late ,  she did praise my leg being cross - gartered ,  and in this she manifests herself to my love ,  and with a kind of injunction ,  drives me to these habits of her liking . 	she did compliment me on my yellow stockings recently ,  and she said she liked how the crisscross laces looked on my legs . 
I thank my stars I am happy . 	oh ,  I thank my lucky stars ,  I’m so happy . 
I will be strange ,  stout ,  in yellow stockings ,  and cross - gartered ,  even with the swiftness of putting on . 	for her I’ll be strange and condescending ,  and I’ll put on my yellow stockings and crisscross laces right away . 
jove and my stars be praised ! 	thank God and my horoscope ! 
here is yet a postscript . 	here’s a postscript !  . 
thou canst not choose but know who I am . 	you must have figured out who I am . 
If thou entertainest my love ,  let it appear in thy smiling . 	If you love me ,  let me know by smiling at me . 
thy smiles become thee well . 	you’re so attractive when you smile . 
therefore in my presence still smile ,  dear my sweet ,  I prithee .  ” 	please smile whenever you’re near me ,  my dearest darling .  ” 
jove ,  I thank thee ! 	dear God ,  thank you ! 
I will do everything that thou wilt have me . 	I’ll do everything she wants me to do . 
I will not give my part of this sport for a pension of thousands to be paid from the Sophy . 	I wouldn’t have missed this even for a pension of thousands of pounds ,  to be paid by the shah of Persia . 
I could marry this wench for this device . 	I could marry that Maria for thinking this up . 
so could I too . 	so could I . 
and ask no other dowry with her but such another jest . 	and I wouldn’t ask for any dowry except for her to play another trick like this one . 
nor I neither . 	neither would I . 
here comes my noble gull - catcher . 	here she comes ,  the brilliant fool - catcher . 
wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck ? 	may I kiss your feet ? 
or o' mine either ? 	and I too ? 
shall I play my freedom at tray - trip ,  and become thy bondslave ? 	shall I be your slave ? 
I' faith ,  or I either ? 	me too . 
why ,  thou hast put him in such a dream that when the image of it leaves him he must run mad . 	you’ve made him so delusional he’ll go crazy when he learns the truth . 
nay ,  but say true ,  does it work upon him ? 	did it really work ? 
like aqua vitae with a midwife . 	like medicine for a sick man . 
If you will see it ,  follow me . 	If you want to watch ,  follow me . 
to the gates of Tartar ,  thou most excellent devil of wit ! 	I’d follow you to the gates of Hell ,  you sneaky little devil ! 
I’ll make one too . 	I’ll come too . 
save thee ,  friend ,  and thy music . 	god bless you ,  my friend ,  and your music too . 
dost thou live by thy tabour ? 	do you make your living by playing that drum ? 
no ,  sir ,  I live by the church . 	no ,  sir ,  I live by the church . 
art thou a churchman ? 	oh ,  you’re a clergyman ? 
so thou mayst say the king lies by a beggar if a beggar dwell near him ,  or the church stands by thy tabor ,  if thy tabor stand by the church . 	you could just as easily say that a king sleeps near a beggar if the beggar lives near him ,  or that the church is supported by your drum because it  “ stands by ”  your drum . 
you have said ,  sir . 	you’re right ,  sir . 
how quickly the wrong side may be turned outward ! 	what a wonderful time to be alive ! 
nay ,  that’s certain . 	that’s true . 
I would therefore my sister had no name ,  sir . 	that’s why I wish my sister didn’t have a name ,  sir . 
why ,  man ? 	why ,  man ? 
why ,  sir ,  her name’s a word ,  and to dally with that word might make my sister wanton . 	well ,  her name’s a word ,  and if you fooled around with it you might make her into a whore . 
thy reason ,  man ? 	why do you say that ? 
troth ,  sir ,  I can yield you none without words ,  and words are grown so false ,  I am loath to prove reason with them . 	honestly ,  sir ,  I’d need to use words to explain why ,  and since words are so unreliable and false ,  I’d rather avoid using them in a serious discussion . 
I warrant thou art a merry fellow and carest for nothing . 	I bet you’re a happy fellow who doesn’t care about anything . 
not so ,  sir ,  I do care for something . 	you’re wrong ,  sir ,  I do care about something . 
but in my conscience ,  sir ,  I do not care for you . 	but I’ll admit I don’t care for you . 
If that be to care for nothing ,  sir ,  I would it would make you invisible . 	If that means I don’t care about anything ,  you should disappear right now ,  since you’re nothing . 
art not thou the Lady Olivia’s fool ? 	aren’t you Lady Olivia’s fool ? 
no ,  indeed ,  sir; the Lady Olivia has no folly . 	no ,  sir . 
I saw thee late at the Count Orsino’s . 	I saw you at Count Orsino’s recently . 
It shines everywhere . 	I’m everywhere . 
I would be sorry ,  sir ,  but the fool should be as oft with your master as with my mistress: I think I saw your wisdom there . 	I think I saw you there ,  you wise man . 
hold ,  there’s expenses for thee . 	wait ,  here’s a coin for you . 
now Jove ,  in his next commodity of hair ,  send thee a beard ! 	next time God sends out a shipment of hair ,  I hope he gives you a beard ! 
to fool) Is thy lady within ? 	oh ,  I know . 
yes ,  being kept together and put to use . 	yes ,  if you kept them together and invested them . 
my lady is within ,  sir . 	my lady Olivia’s inside ,  sir . 
I will construe to them whence you come . 	I’ll tell them where you come from ,  though I don’t know who you are or what you want . 
who you are and what you would are out of my welkin ,  I might say  “ element ,  ”  but the word is overworn . 	I’d say I was  “ out of my element ,  ”  but that phrase is overused ,  so I’ll say I’m  “ out of my air .  ” 
this fellow is wise enough to play the fool ,  And to do that well craves a kind of wit . 	this guy’s wise enough to play the fool ,  and only clever people can do that . 
this is a practise As full of labor as a wise man’s art ,  For folly that he wisely shows is fit . 	and he doesn’t let go of his target when a distraction appears . 
save you ,  gentleman . 	hello ,  sir . 
and you ,  sir . 	hello to you too ,  sir . 
I am bound to your niece ,  sir . 	I’m headed for your niece ,  sir . 
I mean ,  she is the list of my voyage . 	she’s the reason I’m here . 
taste your legs ,  sir . 	taste your legs ,  sir . 
put them to motion . 	please go inside . 
I mean ,  to go ,  sir ,  to enter . 	I mean please go into the house ,  sir . 
I will answer you with gait and entrance . 	I will . 
but we are prevented . 	but now we don’t have to ! 
most excellent accomplished lady ,  the heavens rain odors on you ! 	oh ,  beautiful and accomplished lady ,  may the heavens rain odors upon you ! 
my matter hath no voice ,  lady ,  but to your own most pregnant and vouchsafed ear . 	my message is not for anyone else to hear ,  my lady . 
em all three all ready . 	It’s only for your willing and receptive ear . 
let the garden door be shut ,  and leave me to my hearing . 	close the garden door and leave me alone to hear his message . 
give me your hand ,  sir . 	give me your hand ,  sir . 
my duty ,  madam ,  and most humble service . 	I give you my obedience and my humble service ,  madam . 
what is your name ? 	what’s your name ? 
cesario is your servant’s name ,  fair princess . 	cesario is my name—your servant’s name—fair princess . 
my servant ,  sir ! 	my servant ! 
twas never merry world Since lowly feigning was call’d compliment . 	the world’s gone downhill since fake humility started passing for compliments . 
for him ,  I think not on him . 	as for him ,  I never think about him . 
for his thoughts ,  Would they were blanks ,  rather than fill’d with me . 	as for his thoughts ,  I wish he’d think about nothing at all rather than think about me all the time . 
madam ,  I come to whet your gentle thoughts On his behalf . 	madam ,  I’ve come here to try to make you like him . 
o ,  by your leave ,  I pray you ,  I bade you never speak again of him . 	oh ,  please ,  I’m begging you ,  don’t mention him again . 
dear lady— Give me leave ,  beseech you . 	my dear lady— Please let me say something ,  I’m begging you . 
I did send ,  After the last enchantment you did here ,  A ring in chase of you . 	after you cast your magic spell on me last time ,  I sent you a ring . 
what might you think ? 	what else could you possibly think of me ? 
what a plague means my niece ,  to take the death of her brother thus ? 	what’s wrong with my niece ? 
by my troth ,  Sir Toby ,  you must come in earlier o' nights . 	for God’s sake ,  Sir Toby ,  you’ve got to come home earlier at night . 
your cousin ,  my lady ,  takes great exceptions to your ill hours . 	my lady Olivia ,  your niece ,  disapproves of your late - night partying . 
why ,  let her except ,  before excepted . 	well ,  she can get used to it . 
I’ll confine myself no finer than I am . 	keep myself ? 
these clothes are good enough to drink in ,  and so be these boots too . 	they’re good enough to drink in ,  and so are these boots . 
an they be not ,  let them hang themselves in their own straps . 	If they aren’t ,  they can go hang themselves by their own laces ! 
who ,  Sir Andrew Aguecheek ? 	who ,  Sir Andrew Aguecheek ? 
ay ,  he . 	yes ,  that’s the one . 
he’s as tall a man as any ’s in Illyria . 	he’s as
have you not set mine honor at the stake ,  And baited it with all the unmuzzled thoughts That tyrannous heart can think ? 	haven’t you totally dismissed my honor and integrity in your anger ? 
to one of your receiving Enough is shown . 	for someone as intelligent as you the situation must be clear enough . 
so ,  let me hear you speak . 	so let me hear what you have to say . 
I pity you . 	I feel sorry for you . 
that’s a degree to love . 	that’s a step in the direction of love . 
no ,  not a grize . 	no ,  not at all . 
If one should be a prey ,  how much the better To fall before the lion than the wolf ! 	It’s much better to be destroyed by a noble enemy than by a cruel and heartless one . 
there lies your way ,  due west . 	I wish you all the best . 
stay ,  I prithee ,  tell me what thou thinkest of me . 	you do Stay ,  Please ,  tell me what you think of me . 
that you do think you are not what you are . 	I think you’re denying what you really are . 
If I think so ,  I think the same of you . 	If that’s true ,  I think the same thing about you . 
I would you were as I would have you be ! 	I wish you were what I wanted you to be ! 
would it be better ,  madam ,  than I am ? 	would it be better if I were that ,  instead of what I am ? 
I wish it might ,  for now I am your fool . 	I wish I were something better ,  because right now I’m a big fool . 
and so adieu ,  good madam . 	so goodbye ,  my lady . 
no ,  faith ,  I’ll not stay a jot longer . 	no ,  I won’t stay a second longer . 
thy reason ,  dear venom ,  give thy reason . 	why are you leaving ,  my angry friend ? 
you must needs yield your reason ,  Sir Andrew . 	yes ,  you have to tell us why ,  Sir Andrew . 
marry ,  I saw your niece do more favors to the Count’s servingman than ever she bestowed upon me . 	well ,  because I saw your niece Olivia treat the count’s messenger better than she’s ever treated me . 
I saw ’t i' the orchard . 	I saw it in the orchard . 
did she see thee the while ,  old boy ? 	did she see you there the whole time ,  old boy ? 
tell me that . 	tell me that . 
as plain as I see you now . 	yes ,  she saw me quite clearly . 
this was a great argument of love in her toward you . 	well ,  that proves she’s in love with you . 
slight ,  will you make an ass o' me ? 	are you trying to make fun of me ? 
I will prove it legitimate ,  sir ,  upon the oaths of judgment and reason . 	no ,  I’ll prove it with airtight evidence and logical argument . 
and they have been grand - jurymen since before Noah was a sailor . 	and you can’t deny evidence and argument—They’ve been around since Noah’s ark . 
she did show favor to the youth in your sight only to exasperate you ,  to awake your dormouse valor ,  to put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver . 	she flirted with the messenger boy to exasperate you ,  fire up your passions ,  and make you angry and jealous . 
you should then have accosted her ,  and with some excellent jests ,  fire - new from the mint ,  you should have banged the youth into dumbness . 	you should have run up to her ,  unleashed a few excellent quips invented on the spot ,  and rendered the young man speechless . 
this was looked for at your hand ,  and this was balked . 	that’s what she was expecting ,  and you let her down . 
an ’t be any way ,  it must be with valor ,  for policy I hate . 	I’ll have to do something courageous then ,  because I hate intrigue . 
I had as lief be a Brownist as a politician . 	I’d rather be a heretic than a schemer with fancy plots . 
why ,  then ,  build me thy fortunes upon the basis of valor . 	well then ,  improve your situation with a show of courage . 
challenge me the count’s youth to fight with him . 	challenge the count’s young servant to a fight . 
hurt him in eleven places . 	hurt him in eleven different places . 
my niece shall take note of it ,  and assure thyself ,  there is no love - broker in the world can more prevail in man’s commendation with woman than report of valor . 	my niece Olivia will notice ,  and let me tell you ,  no matchmaker in the world can get you a woman faster than a reputation for courage . 
there is no way but this ,  Sir Andrew . 	It’s really the only way ,  Sir Andrew . 
will either of you bear me a challenge to him ? 	will either of you give him the message that I’m challenging him to a duel ? 
go ,  write it in a martial hand . 	go ahead and write it down . 
be curst and brief . 	be pointed and brief . 
It is no matter how witty ,  so it be eloquent and full of invention . 	It doesn’t need to be witty as long as it’s eloquent and imaginative . 
go . 	go on . 
this is a dear manikin to you ,  Sir Toby . 	this precious little guy is putty in your hands ,  Sir Toby . 
I have been dear to him ,  lad ,  some two thousand strong ,  or so . 	his letter’s going to be hilarious . 
we shall have a rare letter from him: but you’ll not deliver ’t ? 	but you’re not going to deliver it ,  are you ? 
never trust me ,  then . 	never trust me again if I don’t . 
and by all means stir on the youth to an answer . 	and by all means see if you can get the young man to answer it . 
I think oxen and wainropes cannot hale them together . 	I don’t think a team of oxen could get them close enough to fight . 
look where the youngest wren of nine comes . 	here comes my little bird . 
If you desire the spleen ,  and will laugh yourself into stitches ,  follow me . 	listen ,  if you want a good laugh—and I mean a side - splitting one—then follow me . 
he’s in yellow stockings . 	he’s wearing yellow stockings . 
and cross - gartered ? 	with crisscrossed laces ? 
most villanously ,  like a pedant that keeps a school i' the church . 	oh ,  he looks like a pathetic Sunday school teacher . 
he does smile his face into more lines than is in the new map with the augmentation of the Indies . 	he smiles so much his face has more lines in it than a map of the East Indies . 
you have not seen such a thing as ’tis . 	you’ve never seen anything like it . 
I can hardly forbear hurling things at him . 	I can hardly keep myself from throwing things at him . 
I know my lady will strike him . 	I know that my lady’s going to end up hitting him . 
If she do ,  he’ll smile and take ’t for a great favor . 	and when she does ,  he’ll imagine she’s flirting with him . 
come ,  bring us ,  bring us where he is . 	come on ,  take us to him . 
I could not stay behind you . 	I couldn’t stay behind after you left . 
my kind Antonio ,  I can no other answer make but thanks ,  And thanks ,  and ever thanks . 	my friend Antonio ,  all I can say is thank you . 
what’s to do ? 	anyway ,  what should we do ? 
shall we go see the relics of this town ? 	should we go see the sights in the town ? 
belike you slew great number of his people ? 	you probably killed a lot of his men ? 
It might have since been answered in repaying What we took from them ,  which ,  for traffic’s sake ,  Most of our city did . 	the whole quarrel might have been resolved since then when we repaid what we stole from them—which most of our city did ,  for the sake of friendly trade relations . 
only myself stood out; For which ,  if I be lapsèd in this place ,  I shall pay dear . 	I was the only one who refused to give back what I stole . 
do not then walk too open . 	then don’t make yourself too conspicuous . 
It doth not fit me . 	you’re right . 
hold ,  sir ,  here’s my purse . 	hang on a minute ,  here’s some money for you . 
haply your eye shall light upon some toy You have desire to purchase ,  and your store ,  I think ,  is not for idle markets ,  sir . 	maybe you’ll see some little trinket you want to buy . 
I’ll be your purse - bearer and leave you For an hour . 	I’ll hold on to your money and leave you for an hour . 
to the Elephant . 	we’ll meet at the Elephant . 
I do remember . 	I remember . 
I have sent after him . 	I’ve sent for him . 
he says he’ll come . 	he says he’ll come . 
for youth is bought more oft than begged or borrow’d . 	It’s easier to buy young people than to beg or borrow them . 
I speak too loud . — Where’s Malvolio ? 	oh ,  I’m talking too loud . —Where’s Malvolio ? 
he is sad and civil And suits well for a servant with my fortunes . 	he’s very serious ,  which is right for someone in mourning like me . 
where is Malvolio ? 	where is Malvolio ? 
he’s coming ,  madam; but in very strange manner . 	he’s coming ,  madam; but he’s acting very strangely . 
he is sure possessed ,  madam . 	he must be possessed by the devil . 
why ,  what’s the matter ? 	why ,  what’s the matter with him ? 
does he rave ? 	Is he talking nonsense ? 
no ,  madam ,  he does nothing but smile . 	no ,  he just smiles . 
your ladyship were best to have some guard about you if he come ,  for sure the man is tainted in ’s wits . 	you should have a guard nearby if he comes in here ,  because he’s clearly disturbed . 
go call him hither . 	ask him in here . 
I am as mad as he ,  If sad and merry madness equal be . 	I’m as crazy as he is ,  if sad craziness and happy craziness are equivalent . 
how now ,  Malvolio ? 	what’s going on ,  Malvolio ? 
sweet lady ,  ho ,  ho . 	hello ,  sweet lady . 
why ,  he has three thousand ducats a year . 	why ,  he has an income of three thousand ducats a year . 
he’s a very fool and a prodigal . 	he’s a fool and a spendthrift . 
fie ,  that you’ll say so ! 	you shouldn’t talk about him like that ! 
by this hand ,  they are scoundrels and substractors that say so of him . 	anyone who says that is a lying piece of garbage . 
who are they ? 	who said that ? 
they that add ,  moreover ,  he’s drunk nightly in your company . 	the same people who say he gets drunk with you every night . 
with drinking healths to my niece . 	we only drink toasts to my niece . 
I’ll drink to her as long as there is a passage in my throat and drink in Illyria . 	I’ll drink to her as long as there’s a hole in my throat and booze in Illyria . 
he’s a coward and a coistrel that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn o' th' toe like a parish top . 	anyone who refuses to drink to my niece until his brain spins around like a merry - go - round is scum . 
sir Toby Belch ! 	sir Toby Belch ! 
how now ,  Sir Toby Belch ! 	how are you ,  Sir Toby Belch ? 
sweet Sir Andrew ! 	sweet Sir Andrew ! 
smilest thou ? 	you’re smiling ? 
I sent for thee upon a sad occasion . 	I sent for you about a sad occasion . 
sad ,  lady ! 	sad ,  my lady ! 
I could be sad . 	I could be sad if I wanted to be . 
this does make some obstruction in the blood ,  this cross - gartering ,  but what of that ? 	these crisscrossing laces do cut off the circulation in my legs a bit ,  but who cares ? 
If it please the eye of one ,  it is with me as the very true sonnet is ,   “ Please one ,  and please all .  ”   Why ,  how dost thou ,  man ? 	as the sonnet says ,   “ If you please one special person ,  you please everyone who matters .  ”  Why ,  what’s going on ? 
what is the matter with thee ? 	what’s the matter with you ? 
not black in my mind ,  though yellow in my legs . 	my legs may be yellow ,  but I don’t feel blue . 
It did come to his hands ,  and commands shall be executed . 	It was addressed to him ,  and orders must be obeyed . 
I think we do know the sweet Roman hand . 	I think we know whose fancy handwriting that was . 
wilt thou go to bed ,  Malvolio ? 	don’t you think you should go to bed ,  Malvolio ? 
to bed ? 	to bed ! 
how do you ,  Malvolio ? 	how are you feeling ,  Malvolio ? 
at your request ! 	you’re asking me ! 
yes ,  nightingales answer daws ! 	noble people don’t answer to peasants ! 
why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady ? 	why are you acting so brazen toward my lady ? 
be not afraid of greatness .  ”  'Twas well writ . 	don’t be afraid of greatness .  ”  That was well written . 
what meanest thou by that ,  Malvolio ? 	what do you mean by that ,  Malvolio ? 
some are born great— ” 	some are born great— ” 
ha ? 	what ? 
some achieve greatness— ”  What sayest thou ? 	some achieve greatness— ”  What are you saying ? 
and some have greatness thrust upon them .  ”  Heaven restore thee ! 	and some have greatness thrust upon them .  ”  Heaven help you ! 
remember who commended thy yellow stockings— ”  Thy yellow stockings ? 	remember who liked your yellow stockings— ”  Your yellow stockings ? 
and wished to see thee cross - gartered .  ”  Cross - gartered ? 	and wanted to see you with laces crisscrossed over your legs .  ”  Crisscrossed ? 
go to ,  thou art made ,  if thou desirest to be so— ”  Am I made ? 	go ahead . 
madam ,  the young gentleman of the Count Orsino’s is returned . 	madam ,  Count Orsino’s young messenger has returned . 
I’ll come to him . 	I’ll go to him . 
good Maria ,  let this fellow be looked to . 	maria ,  take care of this poor fellow here . 
where’s my cousin Toby ? 	where’s my cousin Toby ? 
let some of my people have a special care of him . 	have some of my servants take care of Malvolio . 
I would not have him miscarry for the half of my dowry . 	I’d give half my dowry to keep anything bad from happening to him . 
oh ,  ho ! 	oh ho ! 
do you come near me now ? 	look at me now ! 
this concurs directly with the letter . 	this is just what the letter said . 
cast thy humble slough ,  ”  says she . 	get rid of your low - class trapping ,  ”  she said . 
I have limed her ,  but it is Jove’s doing ,  and Jove make me thankful ! 	I’ve got her now ,  but I’ve got God to thank for it ! 
and when she went away now ,   “ Let this fellow be looked to .  ”   “ Fellow !  ”  Not  “ Malvolio ,  ”  nor after my degree ,  but  “ fellow .  ”  Why ,  everything adheres together ,  that no dram of a scruple ,  no scruple of a scruple ,  no obstacle ,  no incredulous or unsafe circumstance—what can be said ? 	and when she left just now ,  she said  “ Take care of this poor fellow here .  ”  Fellow !  ”  Not  “ Malvolio ,  ”  not anything referring to my low station in life ,  but  “ fellow .  ”  Everything’s going perfectly . 
nothing that can be can come between me and the full prospect of my hopes . 	nothing can come between me and the fulfillment of all my hopes . 
well ,  Jove ,  not I ,  is the doer of this ,  and he is to be thanked . 	well ,  God is responsible for that ,  not me ,  and he deserves thanks . 
If all the devils of hell be drawn in little ,  and Legion himself possessed him ,  yet I’ll speak to him . 	I don’t care if all the devils in hell crammed together to possess him ,  I still want to speak to him . 
here he is ,  here he is . 	here he is ,  here he is . 
how is’t with you ,  sir ? 	how are you ,  sir ? 
go off ,  I discard you . 	go away . 
let me enjoy my private . 	let me enjoy my privacy . 
go off . 	go away . 
aha ! 	ah - ha ! 
does she so ? 	does she ? 
do you know what you say ? 	do you even know what you’re talking about ? 
marry ,  and it shall be done tomorrow morning if I live . 	sure thing ,  we’ll do it tomorrow morning . 
my lady would not lose him for more than I’ll say . 	my lady would never want to lose him . 
how now ,  mistress ? 	what are you saying ,  mistress ? 
o Lord ! 	oh ,  Lord ! 
no way but gentleness ,  gently ,  gently . 	gentleness is the only way to go—gently ,  gently . 
the fiend is rough and will not be roughly used . 	the devil inside him is rough ,  but we can’t treat it roughly . 
sir ! 	sir ! 
ay ,  Biddy ,  come with me . —What ,  man ! 	yes ,  dear little chick ,  come along with me . —Shut up ,  man ! 
tis not for gravity to play at cherry - pit with Satan . 	you’re serious enough to know not to play games with Satan . 
hang him ,  foul collier ! 	damn that dirty black coalminer of a devil ! 
get him to say his prayers ,  good Sir Toby ,  get him to pray . 	get him to say his prayers ,  Sir Toby ,  get him to pray . 
my prayers ,  minx ? 	my prayers ,  you hussy ? 
go ,  hang yourselves all ! 	go hang yourselves ,  all of you ! 
you are idle ,  shallow things . 	you’re all lazy and shallow . 
I am not of your element . 	I’m not like you . 
you shall know more hereafter . 	you’ll know more about it later . 
Is ’t possible ? 	Is it possible ? 
If this were played upon a stage now ,  I could condemn it as an improbable fiction . 	If this were a play ,  I’d complain it was unrealistic . 
his very genius hath taken the infection of the device ,  man . 	he’s really taken this prank to heart . 
nay ,  pursue him now ,  lest the device take air and taint . 	no ,  follow him now ,  before he divulges the prank and ruins everything . 
why ,  we shall make him mad indeed . 	wow ,  we’re really going to drive him crazy . 
the house will be the quieter . 	the house will be so much quieter . 
come ,  we’ll have him in a dark room and bound . 	come on ,  let’s put him in a dark room and tie him up . 
my niece is already in the belief that he’s mad . 	my niece already thinks he’s insane . 
more matter for a May morning . 	here’s more insanity for us . 
Is ’t so saucy ? 	Is it that aggressive ? 
ay ,  is ’t ,  I warrant him . 	yes ,  it is ,  I think . 
do but read . 	just read it . 
give me . 	give it to me . 
a good note ,  that keeps you from the blow of the law . 	that’s a good thing to put in—it keeps you from getting in trouble with the law . 
very brief ,  and to exceeding good sense—less . 	nice and short and full of good sense—or should I say nonsense ? 
good . 	good . 
still you keep o' the windy side of the law . 	you still haven’t said anything incriminating . 
good . 	good . 
andrew Aguecheek ” 	andrew Aguecheek ” 
If this letter move him not ,  his legs cannot . 	If this letter doesn’t make him fight ,  I don’t know what will . 
I’ll give ’t him . 	I’ll give it to him . 
you may have very fit occasion for ’t . 	you might have a great opportunity to give it to him right now . 
he is now in some commerce with my lady and will by and by depart . 	he’s conducting some business with my lady ,  and sooner or later he’ll leave . 
go ,  Sir Andrew . 	go ,  Sir Andrew . 
scout me for him at the corner the orchard like a bum - baily . 	look out for him in the corner of the orchard as if you were a sheriff’s deputy . 
away ! 	now go ! 
nay ,  let me alone for swearing . 	don’t worry about me not swearing enough . 
his employment between his lord and my niece confirms no less . 	the fact that he serves as a go - between for his lord and my niece Olivia confirms this . 
therefore this letter ,  being so excellently ignorant ,  will breed no terror in the youth . 	so this letter ,  which is so incredibly stupid and ignorant ,  isn’t going to scare him at all . 
he will find it comes from a clodpole . 	he’ll just think an idiot wrote it . 
but ,  sir ,  I will deliver his challenge by word of mouth ,  set upon Aguecheek a notable report of valor ,  and drive the gentleman (as I know his youth will aptly receive it) into a most hideous opinion of his rage ,  skill ,  fury ,  and impetuosity . 	but I’ll deliver Sir Andrew’s challenge by word of mouth ,  describing Sir Andrew as courageous in battle and convincing the young gentleman that Sir Andrew is furious ,  impetuous ,  and a skilled fighter (he’ll believe me because he’s young) . 
this will so fright them both that they will kill one another by the look ,  like cockatrices . 	this will make them both so afraid that they’ll kill each other just by looking at each other . 
here he comes with your niece . 	here comes the messenger with your niece . 
give them way till he take leave ,  and presently after him . 	leave them alone until he sets off home ,  and then follow him . 
I will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a challenge . 	meanwhile ,  I’ll think of some horrible way to phrase the challenge . 
with the same 'havior that your passion bears Goes on my master’s grief . 	my lord acts just as crazy with love as you do . 
here ,  wear this jewel for me . 	here ,  take this piece of jewelry . 
tis my picture . 	there’s a picture of me inside . 
refuse it not . 	don’t refuse it . 
It hath no tongue to vex you . 	It won’t annoy you like me ,  because it doesn’t have a voice . 
and I beseech you come again tomorrow . 	and I beg you ,  please come here again tomorrow . 
what shall you ask of me that I’ll deny ,  That honor ,  saved ,  may upon asking give ? 	what could you possibly ask of me that I wouldn’t give you ,  as long as it didn’t damage my honor and self - respect ? 
nothing but this: your true love for my master . 	nothing ,  except your true love for my lord . 
how with mine honor may I give him that Which I have given to you ? 	how could I honorably give him what I’ve already given you ? 
I will acquit you . 	I’ll give it back to you . 
well ,  come again tomorrow . 	just come again tomorrow . 
fare thee well . 	good - bye . 
a fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell . 	a devil like you could lead me to hell . 
gentleman ,  God save thee . 	hello ,  sir . 
and you ,  sir . 	hello to you . 
that defense thou hast ,  betake thee to ’t . 	you’d better think up a way to defend yourself . 
of what nature the wrongs are thou hast done him ,  I know not ,  but thy intercepter ,  full of despite ,  bloody as the hunter ,  attends thee at the orchard end . 	I don’t know what you’ve done to upset him ,  but someone has challenged you to a duel . 
dismount thy tuck ,  be yare in thy preparation ,  for thy assailant is quick ,  skillful and deadly . 	draw your sword and get on your toes ,  because your assailant is quick ,  skillful ,  and deadly . 
you mistake ,  sir . 	there must be some mistake ,  sir . 
I am sure no man hath any quarrel to me . 	I’m sure nobody would have any reason to fight with me . 
my remembrance is very free and clear from any image of offense done to any man . 	I can’t remember anything I’ve ever done to offend anyone . 
you’ll find it otherwise ,  I assure you . 	you’re wrong about that ,  I assure you . 
I pray you ,  sir ,  what is he ? 	but who is this person ,  sir ? 
he is knight ,  dubbed with unhatched rapier and on carpet consideration ,  but he is a devil in private brawl . 	he’s a knight . 
souls and bodies hath he divorced three ,  and his incensement at this moment is so implacable that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death and sepulchre . 	he’s killed three people ,  and he’s so furious right now that the only thing that will satisfy him is seeing you die . 
hob ,  nob ,  is his word . 	fight to the death ”  is his motto . 
and you too ,  sir . 	hello ,  sir . 
accost ,  Sir Andrew ,  accost . 	chat her up ,  Sir Andrew . 
what’s that ? 	what ? 
good Mistress Accost ,  I desire better acquaintance . 	my dear Miss Chat - her - up ,  I look forward to getting to know you better . 
my name is Mary ,  sir . 	my name is Mary ,  sir . 
by my troth ,  I would not undertake her in this company . 	I was telling you to go after her ,  woo her ,  confront her . 
Is that the meaning of  “ accost ”  ? 	Is that really what you meant ? 
an thou let part so ,  Sir Andrew ,  would thou mightst never draw sword again . 	If you let her go this easily ,  Sir Andrew ,  you don’t deserve to ever use your sword again . 
an you part so ,  mistress ,  I would I might never draw sword again . 	If you leave like this ,  my dear ,  I won’t ever use my sword again . 
fair lady ,  do you think you have fools in hand ? 	do you think you’ve got a couple of fools on your hands here ? 
sir ,  I have not you by the hand . 	I’m not holding your hand ,  sir . 
I will return again into the house and desire some conduct of the lady . 	I’ll go back inside and ask the lady for some kind of escort . 
I am no fighter . 	I’m not a fighter . 
I have heard of some kind of men that put quarrels purposely on others ,  to taste their valor . 	I’ve heard of men who pick fights with other people on purpose ,  just to see how brave they are . 
belike this is a man of that quirk . 	this man is probably like that . 
sir ,  no . 	no ,  sir . 
his indignation derives itself out of a very competent injury . 	he’s furious because you insulted him ,  and he has a right to satisfaction . 
therefore get you on and give him his desire . 	so go out there and give him what he wants . 
back you shall not to the house ,  unless you undertake that with me which with as much safety you might answer him . 	you can’t go back into the house unless you want to fight with me—and if you’re willing to do that ,  you might as well just go and fight with him . 
this is as uncivil as strange . 	this is as rude as it is strange . 
I beseech you ,  do me this courteous office ,  as to know of the knight what my offense to him is . 	please ,  do me this one favor: find out what I’ve done to offend this knight . 
It is something of my negligence ,  nothing of my purpose . 	It must be something I did accidentally . 
I will do so . 	I will do so . 
signior Fabian ,  stay you by this gentleman till my return . 	mr .  Fabian ,  stay with this gentleman until I come back . 
pray you ,  sir ,  do you know of this matter ? 	excuse me ,  sir ,  do you know anything about this ? 
I beseech you ,  what manner of man is he ? 	what kind of man is he ? 
he is ,  indeed ,  sir ,  the most skillful ,  bloody ,  and fatal opposite that you could possibly have found in any part of Illyria . 	he really is the most skillful ,  bloodthirsty ,  and dangerous opponent you can find in Illyria . 
will you walk towards him ? 	do you want to go see him ? 
I will make your peace with him if I can . 	I’ll try to calm him down for you if I can . 
I shall be much bound to you for ’t . 	I’d be very grateful to you if you did . 
why ,  man ,  he’s a very devil . 	wow ,  he’s a real devil . 
I have not seen such a firago . 	I’ve never seen such a monster . 
I had a pass with him ,  rapier ,  scabbard ,  and all ,  and he gives me the stuck - in with such a mortal motion ,  that it is inevitable . 	I had a round with him ,  and his sword thrust is so deadly that you can’t even duck out of the way . 
and on the answer ,  he pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they step on . 	and when he strikes back at you ,  he’ll hit you as sure as you’re standing there . 
they say he has been fencer to the Sophy . 	they say he used to fence for the shah of Persia . 
pox on ’t ! 	that’s it ! 
I’ll not meddle with him . 	I won’t mess with him . 
ay ,  but he will not now be pacified . 	yes ,  but now there’s no way to calm him down . 
fabian can scarce hold him yonder . 	fabian can hardly control him over there . 
plague on ’t ,  an I thought he had been valiant and so cunning in fence ,  I’d have seen him damned ere I’d have challenged him . 	darn it ,  if I’d guessed he was so brave and such a good swordsman ,  I never would have challenged him . 
let him let the matter slip ,  and I’ll give him my horse ,  gray Capilet . 	I’ll give him my gray horse Capilet if he forgets the whole thing . 
I’ll make the motion . 	I’ll give it a try . 
stand here ,  make a good show on ’t . 	stay right here and try to look good . 
this shall end without the perdition of souls . 	this may end without anyone getting killed . 
I’ll ride your horse as well as I ride you . 	he’s just as terrified of Sir Andrew . 
he is as horribly conceited of him ,  and pants and looks pale ,  as if a bear were at his heels . 	he’s pale and hyperventilating ,  as if a bear were chasing him . 
come ,  Sir Andrew ,  there’s no remedy . 	come on ,  Sir Andrew ,  there’s nothing you can do about it . 
the gentleman will ,  for his honor’s sake ,  have one bout with you . 	the gentleman insists on fighting a round with you ,  for the sake of his honor . 
he cannot by the duello avoid it . 	the rules of dueling say he has to . 
but he has promised me ,  as he is a gentleman and a soldier ,  he will not hurt you . 	but as a gentleman and a soldier he’s promised me he won’t hurt you . 
come on ,  to ’t . 	come on ,  get ready . 
pray God ,  he keep his oath ! 	I hope to God he keeps his promise ! 
I do assure you ,  ’tis against my will . 	I swear to you ,  I don’t want to be doing this . 
put up your sword . 	put your sword away . 
If this young gentleman Have done offence ,  I take the fault on me . 	If this young gentleman has offended you ,  I’ll take the blame for it . 
If you offend him ,  I for him defy you . 	If you’ve offended him ,  I’ll fight you . 
you ,  sir ? 	you ,  sir ? 
why ,  what are you ? 	who are you ? 
one ,  sir ,  that for his love dares yet do more Than you have heard him brag to you he will . 	In fact ,  I’d do even more to him than what you’ve heard him promise to do . 
nay ,  if you be an undertaker ,  I am for you . 	If you’re someone who gets into fights ,  I’ll fight with you . 
o good Sir Toby ,  hold ! 	oh ,  Sir Toby ,  stop ! 
here come the officers . 	the police are here . 
marry ,  will I ,  sir . 	I certainly will ,  sir . 
and for that I promised you ,  I’ll be as good as my word . 	and as for what I promised to you ,  I’m as good as my word . 
he will bear you easily and reins well . 	you can ride him easily ,  and he responds well when you pull the reins . 
this is the man . 	this is the man . 
do thy office . 	do your job . 
antonio ,  I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino . 	antonio ,  you’re under arrest on the orders of Count Orsino . 
you do mistake me ,  sir . 	you must be mistaking me for someone else ,  sir . 
no ,  sir ,  no jot . 	no ,  sir ,  not at all . 
I know your favor well ,  Though now you have no sea - cap on your head . — Take him away . 	I recognize your face perfectly ,  even without a sailor’s cap on your head . —Take him away . 
he knows I know him well . 	he knows I recognize him . 
I must obey . 	I have to obey . 
you stand amazed ,  But be of comfort . 	don’t worry about me . 
come ,  sir ,  away . 	come on ,  sir ,  let’s go . 
what money ,  sir ? 	what money ,  sir ? 
I’ll make division of my present with you . 	take this . 
hold ,  there’s half my coffer . 	It’s half of all my money . 
will you deny me now ? 	are you really going to pretend you don’t know me now ? 
I hate ingratitude more in a man Than lying ,  vainness ,  babbling ,  drunkenness ,  Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption Inhabits our frail blood—    O heavens themselves ! 	I hate an ungrateful man more than I hate lying ,  vanity ,  babbling ,  drunkenness ,  or any other vice that we feeble human beings are susceptible to . — Oh ,  my God ! 
come ,  sir ,  I pray you ,  go . 	come on ,  sir ,  please . 
let me speak a little . 	let’s go . 
away ! 	let’s go ! 
but oh ,  how vile an idol proves this god ! 	but oh ,  what a deceiver he turned out to be ! 
none can be called deformed but the unkind . 	only really cruel people can be called deformed . 
virtue is beauty ,  but the beauteous evil Are empty trunks o'erflourished by the devil . 	virtue is beauty ,  but someone beautiful and wicked is like an empty box decorated by the devil . 
the man grows mad . 	the man’s going crazy . 
away with him . 	take him away . 
lead me on . 	take me . 
methinks his words do from such passion fly ,  That he believes himself . 	I don’t believe it . 
so do not I . 	yet I wish I could . 
prove true ,  imagination ,  oh ,  prove true ,  That I ,  dear brother ,  be now ta'en for you ! 	oh ,  please be true ,  please let it be that this man has mistaken me for you ,  my dear brother ! 
come hither ,  knight . 	come here ,  Sir Andrew . 
come hither ,  Fabian . 	you too ,  Fabian . 
we’ll whisper o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws . 	we’ve got some words of wisdom to mull over . 
he named Sebastian . 	he called me Sebastian . 
still in this fashion ,  color ,  ornament ,  For him I imitate . 	with the same accessories . 
oh ,  if it prove ,  Tempests are kind and salt waves fresh in love ! 	oh ,  if it turns out to be true that he survived ,  then that storm was kind ,  and the ocean was full of love ! 
a very dishonest paltry boy ,  and more a coward than a hare . 	he’s a very dishonest ,  puny boy ,  and more cowardly than a rabbit . 
his dishonesty appears in leaving his friend here in necessity and denying him . 	he abandoned his friend here in an emergency ,  and even pretended he didn’t know him . 
and for his cowardship ,  ask Fabian . 	as for his cowardliness ,  ask Fabian . 
a coward ,  a most devout coward ,  religious in it . 	he’s a coward ,  a total coward . 
slid ,  I’ll after him again and beat him . 	by God ,  I’ll go after him again and beat him up . 
an I do not— Come ,  let’s see the event . 	I swear I will— Come on ,  let’s go see what happens . 
I dare lay any money ’twill be nothing yet . 	I’ll bet anything you like that nothing will happen ,  once again . 
let me be clear of thee . 	leave me alone . 
well held out ,  i' faith . 	good for you ,  holding out on me like this ! 
no ,  I do not know you ,  nor I am not sent to you by my lady ,  to bid you come speak with her ,  nor your name is not Master Cesario ,  nor this is not my nose neither . 	no ,  I don’t know you ,  and my lady didn’t send me to get you ,  and I’m not supposed to tell you to come speak with her ,  and your name is not Master Cesario ,  and this is not my nose ,  either . 
nothing that is so is so . 	nothing is what it is . 
I prithee ,  vent thy folly somewhere else . 	oh please ,  go somewhere else to blab your nonsense . 
thou know’st not me . 	you don’t know me . 
vent my folly ? 	blab my nonsense ? 
he has heard that word of some great man and now applies it to a fool . 	he must’ve heard that phrase describing some great man and now he’s using it on a jester . 
vent my folly ! 	blab my nonsense ! 
I am afraid this great lubber ,  the world ,  will prove a cockney . 	what an idiotic place this world is . 
I prithee now ,  ungird thy strangeness and tell me what I shall vent to my lady . 	now please stop being so strange and tell me what exactly I should blab to my lady . 
shall I vent to her that thou art coming ? 	should I blab to her that you’re coming ? 
I prithee ,  foolish Greek ,  depart from me . 	please ,  fool ,  go away . 
there’s money for thee . 	here’s money for you . 
by my troth ,  thou hast an open hand . 	well ,  well . 
these wise men that give fools money get themselves a good report—after fourteen years' purchase . 	wise men who give fools money might get a good reputation—if they keep up regular payments for fourteen years . 
hold ,  sir ,  or I’ll throw your dagger o'er the house . 	stop right now or I’ll throw your dagger over the roof . 
nay ,  let him alone . 	no ,  leave him alone . 
I’ll go another way to work with him . 	I’ll get back at him another way . 
I’ll have an action of battery against him if there be any law in Illyria . 	I’ll sue him for assault and battery ,  if there’s any justice in Illyria . 
though I struck him first ,  yet it’s no matter for that . 	It doesn’t matter that I hit him first . 
come ,  sir ,  I will not let you go . 	no ,  sir ,  I won’t let you go . 
come ,  my young soldier ,  put up your iron . 	come on ,  put your sword away ,  my little soldier . 
you are well fleshed . 	you’re awfully eager to fight . 
come on . 	come on . 
I will be free from thee . 	I’ll get free of you . 
what wouldst thou now ? 	what are you going to do now ? 
If thou darest tempt me further ,  draw thy sword . 	If you insist on trying my patience any further ,  then take out your sword right now . 
what ,  what ? 	what ? 
nay ,  then I must have an ounce or two of this malapert blood from you . 	because then I’d have to shed an ounce or two of your impudent blood . 
hold ,  Toby ! 	stop ,  Sir Toby ! 
on thy life I charge thee ,  hold ! 	I order you to stop ! 
madam ! 	madam ! 
will it be ever thus ? 	are you always going to be like this ? 
out of my sight ! — Be not offended ,  dear Cesario . — Rudesby ,  be gone ! 	get out of my sight ! —Dear Cesario ,  please don’t be offended . —Get out of here ,  you barbarian ! 
thou shalt not choose but go . 	you have to come with me . 
do not deny . 	please don’t say no . 
beshrew his soul for me ! 	damn that Toby ! 
he started one poor heart of mine in thee . 	he made my heart leap for you . 
wherefore ,  sweetheart ? 	why ,  sweetheart ? 
why ,  I think so . 	your hand is  Well ,  I hope so . 
I am not such an ass ,  but I can keep my hand dry . 	I’m not such an idiot that I can’t keep my hands dry . 
but what’s your jest ? 	but I don’t get it—what’s the joke ? 
a dry jest ,  sir . 	just a bit of my dry humor ,  sir . 
are you full of them ? 	are you always so funny ? 
marry ,  now I let go your hand ,  I am barren . 	but oops ,  when I let go of your hand ,  I let go of the biggest joke of all . 
o knight ,  thou lackest a cup of canary . 	sir ,  you need a drink . 
when did I see thee so put down ? 	when has anyone ever put you down like that . 
never in your life ,  I think ,  unless you see canary put me down . 	never . 
methinks sometimes I have no more wit than a Christian or an ordinary man has . 	sometimes I think I’m no smarter than average . 
If it be thus to dream ,  still let me sleep ! 	If this is a dream ,  let me keep on sleeping ! 
nay ,  come ,  I prithee . 	come with me ,  please . 
would thou’dst be ruled by me ! 	I wish you’d do what I ask ! 
madam ,  I will . 	madam ,  I will . 
oh ,  say so ,  and so be ! 	oh ,  say it ,  and mean it ! 
nay ,  I prithee ,  put on this gown and this beard . 	no ,  I’m telling you ,  put on this robe and beard . 
make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate . 	make him think you’re Sir Topas the priest . 
do it quickly . 	be quick . 
I’ll call Sir Toby the whilst . 	meanwhile ,  I’ll get Sir Toby . 
the competitors enter . 	here come the conspirators . 
jove bless thee ,  master Parson . 	god bless you ,  Mr . 
bonos dies ,  Sir Toby . 	priest . 
to him ,  Sir Topas . 	go to him ,  Sir Topas . 
the knave counterfeits well . 	the fool’s a good actor . 
a good knave . 	a good fool . 
sir Topas ,  Sir Topas ,  good Sir Topas ,  go to my lady— Out ,  hyperbolical fiend ! 	sir Topas ,  Sir Topas ,  good Sir Topas ,  please go find my lady Olivia— Get out ,  demon ! 
how vexest thou this man ! 	why are you bothering this poor man ! 
talkest thou nothing but of ladies ? 	can’t you talk about anything besides ladies ? 
fie ,  thou dishonest Satan ! 	you should be ashamed of yourself ,  Satan ,  you liar ! 
I call thee by the most modest terms ,  for I am one of those gentle ones that will use the devil himself with courtesy . 	I’m being gentle with you ,  because I’m one of those good - hearted people who are polite to the devil himself . 
sayest thou that house is dark ? 	you call this house dark ? 
as hell ,  Sir Topas . 	dark as hell ,  Sir Topas . 
why ,  it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes ,  and the clerestories toward the south - north are as lustrous as ebony . 	but it has bay windows that are as transparent as stone walls ,  and the upper windows facing south - north are as clear as coal . 
and yet complainest thou of obstruction ? 	but you’re still complaining of darkness and a bad view ? 
I am not mad ,  Sir Topas . 	I’m not insane ,  Sir Topas . 
I say to you this house is dark . 	I’m telling you ,  this house is dark . 
madman ,  thou errest . 	you’re wrong ,  you madman . 
I say ,  there is no darkness but ignorance ,  in which thou art more puzzled than the Egyptians in their fog . 	there’s no darkness except ignorance ,  and you’re more ignorant than the Egyptians during the plague of fog . 
I say ,  this house is as dark as ignorance ,  though ignorance were as dark as hell . 	I tell you ,  this house is as dark as ignorance . 
I am no more mad than you are . 	I’m no more insane than you are ,  and I’ll prove it . 
make the trial of it in any constant question . 	ask me any commonsense question . 
what is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wildfowl ? 	what was the philosopher Pythagoras’s belief about wild birds ? 
that the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird . 	that our grandmother’s soul could end up inhabiting a bird . 
what thinkest thou of his opinion ? 	what do you think of his belief ? 
I think nobly of the soul ,  and no way approve his opinion . 	I respect the soul very much ,  so I disagree with his belief . 
fare thee well . 	well then ,  goodbye . 
remain thou still in darkness . 	stay in the dark . 
thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I will allow of thy wits ,  and fear to kill a woodcock lest thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam . 	I’ll only admit that you’re sane when you agree with Pythagoras and hesitate to kill a bird because it might contain your grandmother’s soul . 
fare thee well . 	goodbye . 
sir Topas ,  Sir Topas ! 	sir Topas ,  Sir Topas ! 
my most exquisite Sir Topas ! 	the brilliant Sir Topas ! 
nay ,  I am for all waters . 	I can do anything ! 
thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown . 	you could’ve done this without your beard and gown . 
he sees thee not . 	he couldn’t see you . 
to him in thine own voice ,  and bring me word how thou findest him . 	now talk to him in your own voice ,  and tell me how he is . 
I would we were well rid of this knavery . 	I wish this trick would be over . 
If he may be conveniently delivered ,  I would he were ,  for I am now so far in offense with my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot . 	I’m in so much trouble with my niece that it wouldn’t be safe to let this prank go to its conclusion . 
come by and by to my chamber . 	come to my room later on . 
fool ! 	fool ! 
fool ! 	fool ! 
fool ,  I say ! 	fool ,  I say ! 
good fool ,  as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand ,  help me to a candle ,  and pen ,  ink ,  and paper . 	good fool ,  good jester ,  I’ll make it worth your while if you get me a candle ,  and a pen ,  ink and paper . 
as I am a gentleman ,  I will live to be thankful to thee for ’t . 	you have my word as a gentleman that I’ll always be grateful to you . 
master Malvolio ? 	master Malvolio ? 
ay ,  good fool . 	yes ,  good fool . 
but as well ? 	as sane as me ? 
then you are mad indeed ,  if you be no better in your wits than a fool . 	then you really are insane ,  if you’re no saner than a fool . 
sir Topas ! 	sir Topas ! 
fool ,  fool ,  fool ,  I say ! 	fool ,  fool ,  hey ,  fool ! 
alas ,  sir ,  be patient . 	please ,  sir ,  be quiet . 
what say you sir ? 	what do you want to say ,  sir ? 
good fool ,  help me to some light and some paper . 	be a nice fool and help me find a candle and some paper . 
I tell thee ,  I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria . 	I tell you ,  I’m as sane as any man in Illyria . 
well - a - day that you were ,  sir . 	If only you were ,  sir . 
by this hand ,  I am . 	I swear I am . 
good fool ,  some ink ,  paper ,  and light ,  and convey what I will set down to my lady . 	get me some ink ,  paper ,  and a candle . 
It shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing of letter did . 	you’ll get a bigger reward than you ever got delivering a letter before . 
I will help you to ’t . 	I’ll help you . 
but tell me true ,  are you not mad indeed ? 	but tell me honestly ,  are you sure you’re not insane ? 
or do you but counterfeit ? 	or are you just pretending ? 
believe me ,  I am not . 	believe me ,  I’m not . 
I tell thee true . 	I’m telling the truth . 
nay ,  I’ll ne'er believe a madman till I see his brains . 	I’ll never believe a madman until I can see his brains . 
I will fetch you light ,  and paper ,  and ink . 	but I’ll get you a candle and paper and ink . 
fool ,  I’ll requite it in the highest degree . 	fool ,  I’ll repay you for this favor . 
I prithee ,  be gone . 	please ,  hurry . 
this is the air ,  that is the glorious sun . 	this is the air ,  that’s the glorious sun . 
where’s Antonio ,  then ? 	where’s Antonio ,  then ? 
I could not find him at the Elephant . 	I didn’t find him at the Elephant . 
yet there he was ,  and there I found this credit ,  That he did range the town to seek me out . 	but he’d been there before me ,  and they told me he’d gone out looking for me . 
his counsel now might do me golden service . 	I could really use his advice right now . 
there’s something in ’t That is deceivable . 	there’s something going on that’s not what it seems . 
but here the lady comes . 	but here she comes . 
I’ll follow this good man ,  and go with you; And ,  having sworn truth ,  ever will be true . 	I’ll follow the priest and go with you; and after I’ve sworn to be faithful ,  I’ll be faithful forever . 
then lead the way ,  good father; and heavens so shine That they may fairly note this act of mine . 	then lead the way ,  father . 
now ,  as thou lovest me ,  let me see his letter . 	If you’re my friend ,  you’ll let me see his letter . 
good Master Fabian ,  grant me another request . 	dear Mr .  Fabian ,  do me another favor first . 
anything . 	anything . 
do not desire to see this letter . 	don’t ask to see this letter . 
belong you to the Lady Olivia ,  friends ? 	my friends ,  are you all Lady Olivia’s servants ? 
ay ,  sir ,  we are some of her trappings . 	yes ,  sir ,  we’re part of her entourage . 
I know thee well . 	I know you . 
how dost thou ,  my good fellow ? 	how are you ,  my friend ? 
truly ,  sir ,  the better for my foes and the worse for my friends . 	I’m better off because of my enemies ,  and worse off because of my friends . 
the better for thy friends . 	you’re better off because of your friends . 
no ,  sir ,  the worse . 	no ,  sir ,  worse off . 
how can that be ? 	how can that be ? 
I’ll ride home tomorrow ,  Sir Toby . 	by the way ,  I’m going home tomorrow ,  Sir Toby . 
then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair . 	what does  You’d have a great hairstyle if you had . 
why ,  would that have mended my hair ? 	why ,  would that have fixed my hair ? 
past question ,  for thou seest it will not curl by nature . 	oh ,  no question—it won’t style itself . 
but it becomes me well enough ,  does ’t not ? 	but my hair looks good anyway ,  doesn’t it ? 
excellent . 	It looks great . 
It hangs like flax on a distaff . 	It hangs like an old worn - out mop . 
faith ,  I’ll home tomorrow ,  Sir Toby . 	listen ,  I’m going home tomorrow ,  Sir Toby . 
the count himself here hard by woos her . 	that duke who lives nearby is courting her . 
I have heard her swear ’t . 	I’ve heard her say that . 
tut ,  there’s life in ’t ,  man . 	so cheer up ,  there’s still hope for you ,  man . 
marry ,  sir ,  they praise me and make an ass of me ,  now my foes tell me plainly I am an ass . 	well ,  my friends praise me and make me look like an idiot ,  while my enemies tell me straightforwardly that I am an idiot . 
so that by my foes ,  sir I profit in the knowledge of myself ,  and by my friends ,  I am abused . 	my enemies help me understand myself better ,  which is an advantage ,  and my friends help me lie about myself ,  which is a disadvantage . 
so that ,  conclusions to be as kisses ,  if your four negatives make your two affirmatives ,  why then the worse for my friends and the better for my foes . 	so if four negatives make two affirmatives ,  I’m worse off because of my friends and better off because of my foes . 
why ,  this is excellent . 	that’s excellent . 
by my troth ,  sir ,  no—though it please you to be one of my friends . 	don’t say that—unless you want to be one of my friends . 
thou shalt not be the worse for me: there’s gold . 	that’s a nice hand you dealt me . 
but that it would be double - dealing ,  sir ,  I would you could make it another . 	but if it’s not double - dealing ,  sir ,  I wish you’d deal me another . 
o ,  you give me ill counsel . 	oh ,  you’re a naughty one ,  encouraging double - dealing . 
well ,  I will be so much a sinner ,  to be a double - dealer . 	well ,  I’ll commit the sin of double - dealing ,  and deal you a second coin . 
there’s another . 	here it is . 
primo ,  secundo ,  tertio is a good play ,  and the old saying is ,  the third pays for all . 	and maybe a third ? 
the triplex ,  sir ,  is a good tripping measure ,  or the bells of Saint Bennet ,  sir ,  may put you in mind—one ,  two ,  three . 	the three - beat rhythm is a good for dancing ,  and the church bells chime—one ,  two ,  three . 
you can fool no more money out of me at this throw . 	you can’t get any more money out of me right now . 
If you will let your lady know I am here to speak with her ,  and bring her along with you ,  it may awake my bounty further . 	If you tell your lady I’m here to speak with her ,  and bring her out with you when you come back ,  you might make me more generous . 
marry ,  sir ,  lullaby to your bounty till I come again . 	well then ,  sing a lullaby to your generosity: it’ll nap until I come back . 
I go ,  sir ,  but I would not have you to think that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness . 	but don’t think I’m doing this because I’m greedy . 
but ,  as you say ,  sir ,  let your bounty take a nap ,  I will awake it anon . 	I’ll be back soon to wake up your generosity . 
here comes the man ,  sir ,  that did rescue me . 	here comes the man who rescued me ,  sir . 
that face of his I do remember well . 	I remember his face well . 
yet ,  when I saw it last ,  it was besmeared As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war . 	though the last time I saw him it was black from the smoke of war . 
a baubling vessel was he captain of ,  For shallow draught and bulk unprizable ,  With which such scathful grapple did he make With the most noble bottom of our fleet ,  That very envy and the tongue of loss Cried fame and honor on him . —What’s the matter ? 	he was the captain of a flimsy boat that was practically worthless because it was so small . 
orsino ,  this is that Antonio That took the  And this is he that did the  When your young nephew Titus lost his leg . 	orsino ,  this is the same Antonio who took the
he did me kindness ,  sir ,  drew on my side ,  But in conclusion put strange speech upon me . 	but then he said strange things to me . 
I know not what ’twas but distraction . 	I don’t know what else it could be . 
notable pirate ! 	but you’re a famous pirate ! 
orsino ,  noble sir ,  Be pleased that I shake off these names you give me . 	orsino ,  sir ,  please don’t call me those names . 
antonio never yet was thief or pirate ,  Though ,  I confess ,  on base and ground enough ,  Orsino’s enemy . 	I was never a thief or a pirate ,  though I admit I was your enemy for good reasons . 
that most ingrateful boy there by your side From the rude sea’s enraged and foamy mouth Did I redeem . 	I rescued that ungrateful boy next to you from drowning . 
a wreck past hope he was . 	he was a wreck ,  almost past hope . 
his life I gave him and did thereto add My love ,  without retention or restraint ,  All his in dedication . 	I saved his life and gave him my love ,  without reservation . 
how can this be ? 	how is that possible ? 
here comes the Countess . 	ah ,  the countess is coming ! 
now heaven walks on earth . 	an angel is walking on earth . 
what would my lord ,  but that he may not have ,  Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable ? 	what can I give you that you want ,  my lord ,  except the one thing you can’t have ? 
cesario ,  you do not keep promise with me . 	cesario ,  you missed your appointment with me . 
madam ? 	madam ? 
gracious Olivia— What do you say ,  Cesario ? —Good my lord— My lord would speak . 	dearest Olivia— What do you have to say for yourself ,  Cesario ? —My lord ,  please— My lord wants to speak . 
my duty hushes me . 	It’s my duty to be quiet . 
still so cruel ? 	are you still so cruel ? 
still so constant ,  lord . 	I am still so faithful ,  my lord . 
what ,  to perverseness ? 	what ,  faithful to being mean and nasty ? 
you ,  uncivil lady ,  To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars My soul the faithfull’st off'rings have breathed out That e'er devotion tendered—what shall I do ? 	I breathed from my soul the most faithful offerings to your ungrateful altars that any devoted person has ever offered—what more am I supposed to do ? 
even what it please my lord that shall become him . 	you can do whatever you want as long as it’s socially appropriate . 
come ,  boy ,  with me . 	come with me ,  boy . 
and I ,  most jocund ,  apt ,  and willingly ,  To do you rest ,  a thousand deaths would die . 	and I would die a thousand deaths cheerfully ,  if it made your life easier . 
where goes Cesario ? 	where’s Cesario going ? 
ay me ,  detested ! 	that’s the truth . 
who does beguile you ? 	who tricked you ? 
who does do you wrong ? 	who treated you badly ? 
hast thou forgot thyself ? 	have you completely forgotten ? 
Is it so long ? — Call forth the holy father . 	has it been so long ? 
come ,  away ! 	call the priest . 
whither ,  my lord ? —Cesario ,  husband ,  stay . 	go where ,  my lord ? —Cesario ,  my husband ,  stay here . 
husband ? 	husband ? 
ay ,  husband . 	yes ,  husband . 
can he that deny ? 	can he deny it ? 
her husband ,  sirrah ? 	are you her husband ,  boy ? 
no ,  my lord ,  not I .  Alas ,  it is the baseness of thy fear That makes thee strangle thy propriety . 	no ,  my lord ,  not me . 
fear not ,  Cesario . 	but don’t be afraid ,  Cesario . 
be that thou know’st thou art ,  and then thou art As great as that thou fear’st . 	be the person you know you are ,  and you’ll be as powerful as this person you fear . 
o ,  welcome ,  father ! 	oh ,  hello ,  father ! 
father ,  I charge thee ,  by thy reverence ,  Here to unfold (though lately we intended To keep in darkness what occasion now Reveals before ’tis ripe) what thou dost know Hath newly passed between this youth and me . 	father ,  could I please ask you to tell these people what happened between me and this young man ? 
my lord ,  I do protest—    O ,  do not swear ! 	my lord ,  I swear to you— Oh ,  don’t swear ! 
hold little faith ,  though thou hast too much fear . 	keep a little bit of honesty ,  even if you’re afraid . 
for the love of God ,  a surgeon ! 	for the love of God ,  call a doctor ! 
send one presently to Sir Toby . 	sir Toby needs help right away . 
what’s the matter ? 	what’s the matter ? 
he has broke my head across and has given Sir Toby a bloody coxcomb too . 	he cut my head and gave Sir Toby a bloody head ,  too . 
for the love of God ,  your help ! 	for the love of God ,  help us ! 
I had rather than forty pound I were at home . 	I’d give forty pounds to be safe at home right now . 
who has done this ,  Sir Andrew ? 	who did this ,  Sir Andrew ? 
the Count’s gentleman ,  one Cesario . 	the count’s messenger ,  Cesario . 
we took him for a coward ,  but he’s the very devil incardinate . 	we thought he was a coward ,  but he fights like a devil . 
my gentleman ,  Cesario ? 	my Cesario ? 
od’s lifelings ,  here he is ! —You broke my head for nothing ,  and that that I did ,  I was set on to do ’t by Sir Toby . 	anything I did to you ,  I did it because Sir Toby made me . 
why do you speak to me ? 	why are you talking like this ? 
I never hurt you . 	I never hurt you . 
If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt ,  you have hurt me . 	If a bloody head counts as a hurt ,  then you hurt me . 
I think you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb . 	apparently you think there’s nothing unusual about a bloody head . 
here comes Sir Toby halting . 	here comes Sir Toby ,  limping . 
you shall hear more . 	he’ll tell you more of the story . 
but if he had not been in drink ,  he would have tickled you othergates than he did . 	If he hadn’t been drunk ,  he would’ve really roughed you up . 
how now ,  gentleman ? 	hello ,  sir ! 
how is ’t with you ? 	how are you ? 
that’s all one: has hurt me ,  and there’s the end on ’t . 	It doesn’t matter how I am: he hurt me ,  and that’s that . 
fOOL Oh ,  he’s drunk ,  Sir Toby ,  an hour agone . 	oh ,  he’s drunk ,  Sir Toby ,  for a whole hour now . 
his eyes were set at eight i' the morning . 	his eyes started glazing over around eight in the morning . 
then he’s a rogue ,  and a passy - measures pavin . 	then he’s no good . 
I hate a drunken rogue . 	I hate no - good drunks . 
away with him ! 	take him away ! 
who hath made this havoc with them ? 	who did this to him ? 
I’ll help you ,  Sir Toby ,  because we’ll be dressed together . 	I’ll help you ,  Sir Toby . 
will you help ? —An ass - head ,  and a coxcomb ,  and a knave ,  a thin - faced knave ,  a gull ! 	will you help me ? —What an ass and a fool ,  a gullible no - good idiot ! 
get him to bed ,  and let his hurt be looked to . 	get him to bed and make sure his wounds are treated . 
pardon me ,  sweet one ,  even for the vows We made each other but so late ago . 	but please forgive me ,  darling ,  for the sake of the vows we made to each other so recently . 
one face ,  one voice ,  one habit ,  and two persons ! 	one face ,  one voice ,  one way of dressing ,  but two people ! 
antonio ,  O my dear Antonio ! 	antonio ,  oh my dear Antonio ! 
how have the hours racked and tortured me Since I have lost thee ! 	I’ve been so tortured since I lost track of you ! 
sebastian are you ? 	are you Sebastian ? 
fear’st thou that ,  Antonio ? 	do you have any doubts ,  Antonio ? 
how have you made division of yourself ? 	how did you divide yourself in two ? 
an apple ,  cleft in two ,  is not more twin Than these two creatures . 	these two people are as identical as two halves of an apple . 
which is Sebastian ? 	which one is Sebastian ? 
most wonderful ! 	how unbelievable ! 
sebastian was my father; Such a Sebastian was my brother too ,  So went he suited to his watery tomb . 	sebastian was my father’s name ,  and my brother was named Sebastian too . 
a spirit I am indeed ,  But am in that dimension grossly clad Which from the womb I did participate . 	I am a spirit ,  yes ,  since I have a soul . 
were you a woman ,  as the rest goes even ,  I should my tears let fall upon your cheek And say  “ Thrice - welcome ,  drownèd Viola !  ”  My father had a mole upon his brow . 	If you were a woman ,  I’d hug you now and cry ,  and say  “ Welcome back ,  drowned Viola !  ”  My father had a mole on his forehead . 
and so had mine . 	mine did too . 
and died that day when Viola from her birth Had numbered thirteen years . 	he died on Viola’s thirteenth birthday . 
I’ll stay a month longer . 	all right ,  I’ll stay another month . 
I am a fellow o' th' strangest mind i' th' world . 	ah ,  I’m an odd kind of guy . 
I delight in masques and revels sometimes altogether . 	sometimes all I want to do is see plays and go out dancing . 
art thou good at these kickshawses ,  knight ? 	are you good at those kinds of things ? 
wherefore are these things hid ? 	why do you hide these things ? 
wherefore have these gifts a curtain before 'em ? 	why do you keep these talents behind a curtain ? 
are they like to take dust ,  like Mistress Mall’s picture ? 	are they likely to get dusty ? 
why dost thou not go to church in a galliard and come home in a coranto ? 	why don’t you go off to church dancing one way ,  and come home dancing another way ? 
I would not so much as make water but in a sink - a - pace . 	I wouldn’t even pee without dancing a waltz . 
what dost thou mean ? 	what are you thinking ? 
Is it a world to hide virtues in ? 	Is this the kind of world where we hide our accomplishments ? 
I did think ,  by the excellent constitution of thy leg ,  it was formed under the star of a galliard . 	look how shapely your legs are . 
ay ,  ’tis strong ,  and it does indifferent well in a dun - colored stock . 	that’s true . 
what shall we do else ? 	why not ? 
were we not born under Taurus ? 	weren’t we both born under Taurus ? 
oh ,  that record is lively in my soul ! 	oh ,  I remember that very clearly ! 
he finished indeed his mortal act That day that made my sister thirteen years . 	It’s true ,  he died on the day my sister turned thirteen . 
give me thy hand ,  And let me see thee in thy woman’s weeds . 	give me your hand and let me see you dressed in woman’s clothing . 
the captain that did bring me first on shore Hath my maid’s garments . 	the captain who brought me to shore has my women’s clothes . 
he ,  upon some action ,  Is now in durance at Malvolio’s suit ,  A gentleman and follower of my lady’s . 	for some reason he’s in prison now on some legal technicality ,  on Malvolio’s orders . 
he shall enlarge him . 	he’ll release him . 
a most extracting frenzy of mine own From my remembrance clearly banished his . 	I was so crazy myself that I forgot all about him . 
truly ,  madam ,  he holds Beelzebub at the staves' end as well as a man in his case may do . 	well ,  he keeps the devil away as well as a man can in his situation . 
has here writ a letter to you . 	he’s written you a letter . 
I should have given ’t you today morning ,  but as a madman’s epistles are no gospels ,  so it skills not much when they are delivered . 	I would’ve given it to you this morning ,  but a madman’s letters aren’t Gospel ,  so it doesn’t matter much if I’m a bit late . 
open ’t ,  and read it . 	open it and read it . 
look then to be well edified when the fool delivers the madman . 	there’s a lot to learn when a fool recites the words of a madman . 
how now ? 	why are you talking like that ? 
art thou mad ? 	are you insane ? 
no ,  madam ,  I do but read madness . 	no ,  madam ,  I’m just reading an insane letter . 
an your ladyship will have it as it ought to be ,  you must allow  Prithee ,  read i' thy right wits . 	If you want things done in the right way ,  you’ll have to let me read a crazy letter in a crazy voice . 
so I do ,  madonna . 	no ,  please ,  read it like a sane person . 
but to read his right wits is to read thus . 	I will ,  my lady ,  but a sane person reading this would make it sound crazy . 
therefore perpend ,  my princess ,  and give ear . 	so listen up ,  princess . 
by the Lord ,  madam ,  you wrong me ,  and the world shall know it . 	I swear to God ,  madam ,  you’ve wronged me ,  and I’ll tell the whole world . 
though you have put me into darkness and given your drunken cousin rule over me ,  yet have I the benefit of my senses as well as your Ladyship . 	you’ve shut me up in a dark room and given your drunken cousin authority over me ,  but I’m as sane as you are . 
think of me as you please . 	I don’t care what you think of me . 
I leave my duty a little unthought of and speak out of my injury . 	I’m going to forget my duties to you a little bit and complain about the injuries you’ve caused me . 
the madly used Malvolio .  ”   Did he write this ? 	signed ,     The poorly treated Malvolio .  ”  Did he write this ? 
ay ,  madam . 	yes ,  madam . 
this savors not much of distraction . 	set him free . 
see him delivered ,  Fabian; bring him hither . 	fabian ,  bring him here . 
madam ,  I am most apt to embrace your offer . 	I accept that offer happily ,  madam . 
Is this the madman ? 	Is this the madman ? 
ay ,  my lord ,  this same . 	yes ,  my lord . 
how now ,  Malvolio ! 	how are you ,  Malvolio ? 
madam ,  you have done me wrong ,  Notorious wrong . 	madam ,  you’ve treated me badly ,  very badly . 
have I ,  Malvolio ? 	I did ,  Malvolio ? 
no . 	no . 
tell me why . 	tell me why you did it . 
alas ,  Malvolio ,  this is not my writing ,  Though ,  I confess ,  much like the character . 	I’m sorry ,  Malvolio ,  but this isn’t my writing ,  though I admit it looks like mine . 
but out of question ,  ’tis Maria’s hand . 	It’s definitely Maria’s handwriting . 
and now I do bethink me ,  it was she First told me thou wast mad ,  then camest in smiling ,  And in such forms which here were presupposed Upon thee in the letter . 	now that I think about it ,  Maria was the one who first told me you were insane . 
prithee ,  be content . 	I promise . 
why ,   “ some are born great ,  some achieve greatness ,  and some have greatness thrown upon them .  ”  I was one ,  sir ,  in this interlude ,  one Sir Topas ,  sir ,  but that’s all one . 	well ,  you know ,   “ some are born great ,  some achieve greatness ,  and some have greatness thrust upon them .  ”  Anyway ,  I was part of the trick ,  sir . 
he hath been most notoriously abused . 	he really was tricked horribly . 
pursue him and entreat him to a peace . 	go after him and try to calm him down a little . 
he hath not told us of the captain yet . 	he still hasn’t told us about the captain . 
cesario ,  come ,  For so you shall be ,  while you are a man . 	cesario ,  come here . 
taurus ! 	taurus ! 
that’s sides and heart . 	that governs the torso and heart ,  doesn’t it ? 
no ,  sir ,  it is legs and thighs . 	no ,  the legs and thighs . 
let me see the caper . 	let me see you dance . 
he hath known you but three days ,  and already you are no stranger . 	he’s only known you for three days ,  but he’s already treating you like a close friend . 
no ,  believe me . 	no ,  not at all . 
I thank you . 	thanks for telling me . 
here comes the count . 	here comes the Duke now . 
who saw Cesario ,  ho ? 	has anyone seen Cesario ? 
be clamorous ,  and leap all civil bounds ,  Rather than make unprofited return . 	be loud and obnoxious . 
I think not so ,  my lord . 	I don’t think so ,  my lord . 
dear lad ,  believe it . 	my boy ,  it’s true . 
for they shall yet belie thy happy years That say thou art a man . 	anyone who says you’re a man must not notice how young you are . 
I know thy constellation is right apt For this affair . 	I know you’re the right person for this job . 
I’ll do my best To woo your lady— Whoe'er I woo ,  myself would be his wife . 	I’ll do my best to make this lady love you . 
give me excess of it that ,  surfeiting ,  The appetite may sicken ,  and so die . 	give me too much of it ,  so I’ll get sick of it and stop loving . 
oh ,  it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound ,  That breathes upon a bank of violets ,  Stealing and giving odor . 	oh ,  it sounded like a sweet breeze blowing gently over a bank of violets ,  taking their scent with it . 
tis not so sweet now as it was before . 	It doesn’t sound as sweet as it did before . 
so full of shapes is fancy That it alone is high fantastical . 	love is so vivid and fantastical that nothing compares to it . 
will you go hunt ,  my lord ? 	do you want to go hunting ,  my lord ? 
what ,  Curio ? 	hunting what ,  Curio ? 
my lady will hang thee for thy absence . 	lady Olivia will have you executed for not showing up . 
let her hang me . 	so let her execute me . 
make that good . 	how do you know ? 
he shall see none to fear . 	well ,  he’ll be dead ,  so he won’t see anything . 
a good lenten answer . 	that’s a lame answer . 
I can tell thee where that saying was born ,  of  “ I fear no colors .  ”   Where ,  good Mistress Mary ? 	where ,  good Miss Mary ? 
In the wars . 	from soldiers . 
well ,  God give them wisdom that have it . 	well ,  we all have our special gifts . 
yet you will be hanged for being so long absent . 	but still ,  she’s going to kill you for being gone so long . 
you are resolute ,  then ? 	you’ve made up your mind ,  then ? 
well ,  go thy way . 	well ,  go along now . 
If Sir Toby would leave drinking ,  thou wert as witty a piece of Eve’s flesh as any in Illyria . 	you’d be the funniest person in Illyria… if Sir Toby ever stopped drinking . 
peace ,  you rogue ,  no more o' that . 	shut up ,  you troublemaker ,  no more of that . 
here comes my lady . 	here comes my lady . 
take the fool away . 	get that fool out of here . 
do you not hear ,  fellows ? 	didn’t you hear her ,  guys ? 
take away the lady . 	get the lady out of here . 
go to ,  you’re a dry fool . 	oh ,  go away ,  you’re a boring fool . 
I’ll no more of you . 	I don’t want to have anything to do with you anymore . 
besides ,  you grow dishonest . 	besides ,  you’ve gotten unreliable . 
If he cannot ,  let the botcher mend him . 	If he cannot ,  let the tailor mend him . 
anything that’s mended is but patched . 	anything that’s mended is only patched up . 
virtue that transgresses is but patched with sin ,  and sin that amends is but patched with virtue . 	a good person who does something wrong is only patched up with sin . 
If that this simple syllogism will serve ,  so . 	If this logic works ,  that’s great . 
If it will not ,  what remedy ? 	If not ,  what can you do about it ? 
sir ,  I bade them take away you . 	I told them to take  Oh ,  what a big mistake ! 
good madonna ,  give me leave to prove you a fool . 	please let me prove you’re a fool . 
can you do it ? 	can you do that ? 
dexterously ,  good madonna . 	easily ,  madam . 
I must catechise you for it ,  madonna . 	I’ll have to ask you some questions ,  madam . 
good my mouse of virtue ,  answer me . 	please answer ,  my good little student . 
well ,  sir ,  for want of other idleness ,  I’ll bide your proof . 	I’m listening to you only because I’ve got nothing better to do . 
good madonna ,  why mournest thou ? 	my dear madam ,  why are you in mourning ? 
good fool ,  for my brother’s death . 	my dear fool ,  because my brother died . 
I think his soul is in hell ,  madonna . 	I think his soul’s in hell ,  my lady . 
I know his soul is in heaven ,  fool . 	I know his soul’s in heaven ,  fool . 
the more fool ,  madonna ,  to mourn for your brother’s soul being in heaven . 	then you’re a fool for being sad that your brother’s soul is in heaven . 
take away the fool ,  gentlemen . 	take away this fool ,  gentlemen . 
what think you of this fool ,  Malvolio ? 	what do you think of this fool ,  Malvolio ? 
doth he not mend ? 	Isn’t he getting funnier ? 
yes ,  and shall do till the pangs of death shake him . 	yes ,  and he’ll keep getting funnier till he dies . 
Infirmity ,  that decays the wise ,  doth ever make the better fool . 	old age always makes people act funny—even wise people ,  but fools more than anybody . 
god send you ,  sir ,  a speedy infirmity ,  for the better increasing your folly ! 	I hope you go senile soon ,  sir ,  so you can become a more foolish fool ! 
sir Toby will be sworn that I am no fox ,  but he will not pass his word for two pence that you are no fool . 	sir Toby would bet a fortune that I’m not smart ,  but he wouldn’t bet two cents that you’re not a fool . 
how say you to that ,  Malvolio ? 	what do you say to that ,  Malvolio ? 
I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a barren rascal . 	I’m surprised you enjoy the company of this stupid troublemaker . 
I saw him put down the other day with an ordinary fool that	the other day I saw him defeated in a
I protest I take these wise men that crow so at these set kind of fools no better than the fools' zanies . 	I swear ,  anyone smart who laughs at these courts jesters is nothing but a jester’s apprentice . 
oh ,  you are sick of self - love ,  Malvolio ,  and taste with a distempered appetite . 	malvolio ,  your vanity is damaging your good taste . 
now Mercury endue thee with leasing ,  for thou speakest well of fools ! 	you speak so highly of fools ! 
madam ,  there is at the gate a young gentleman much desires to speak with you . 	madam ,  there’s a young gentleman at the gate who really wants to speak to you . 
from the Count Orsino ,  is it ? 	was he sent by Count Orsino ? 
I know not ,  madam . 	I don’t know ,  madam . 
tis a fair young man ,  and well attended . 	he’s a good - looking young man ,  and there are a lot of people with him . 
who of my people hold him in delay ? 	who’s talking to him now ? 
sir Toby ,  madam ,  your kinsman . 	sir Toby ,  madam ,  your relative . 
he speaks nothing but madman . 	he talks nothing but nonsense . 
If it be a suit from the count ,  I am sick ,  or not at home . 	If he’s got a message from the count ,  tell him I’m sick ,  or not home . 
what is he at the gate ,  cousin ? 	who’s that at the gate ,  uncle ? 
a gentleman . 	a gentleman . 
a gentleman ? 	a gentleman ? 
what gentleman ? 	what gentleman ? 
good Sir Toby ! 	there’s some gentleman out there . — Good Sir Toby ! 
lechery ! 	nonsense . 
I defy lechery . 	I defy brain - death ! 
there’s one at the gate . 	I told you ,  someone’s at the gate . 
ay ,  marry ,  what is he ? 	yes ,  but who is he ? 
let him be the devil ,  an he will ,  I care not . 	let him be the devil if he wants to ,  I don’t care . 
give me faith ,  say I . 	god will protect me . 
what’s a drunken man like ,  fool ? 	tell me what a drunk is like ,  fool . 
like a drowned man ,  a fool and a madman . 	he’s a fool ,  a madman ,  and a drowned man . 
one draught above heat makes him a fool ,  the second mads him ,  and a third drowns him . 	the first drink makes him a fool ,  the second makes him crazy ,  and the third drowns him . 
go look after him . 	go take care of him . 
madam ,  yond young fellow swears he will speak with you . 	madam ,  that young man out there says he’s got to speak to you . 
I told him you were sick . 	I told him you were sick . 
he takes on him to understand so much ,  and therefore comes to speak with you . 	he claimed he knew that ,  and that’s why he’s come to speak with you . 
I told him you were asleep . 	I told him you were asleep . 
he seems to have a foreknowledge of that too ,  and therefore comes to speak with you . 	he claimed to know that already too ,  and said that’s the reason he’s come to speak with you . 
what is to be said to him ,  lady ? 	what can I say to him ,  lady ? 
he’s fortified against any denial . 	he’s got an answer for everything . 
tell him he shall not speak with me . 	tell him he’s not going to speak with me . 
what manner of man ? 	just a man ,  like any other . 
of very ill manner . 	but what’s he like ? 
he’ll speak with you ,  will you or no . 	he insists he’ll speak with you whether you want him to or not . 
of what personage and years is he ? 	how old is he ? 
not yet old enough for a man ,  nor young enough for a boy ,  as a squash is before ’tis a peascod ,  or a codling when ’tis almost an apple . 	not old enough to be a man ,  but not young enough to be a boy . 
tis with him in standing water ,  between boy and man . 	he’s somewhere between boy and man . 
he is very well - favored ,  and he speaks very shrewishly . 	he’s very handsome and speaks well ,  but he’s very young . 
one would think his mother’s milk were scarce out of him . 	he looks like he just recently stopped breastfeeding . 
let him approach . 	show him in . 
call in my gentlewoman . 	call in my maid . 
gentlewoman ,  my lady calls . 	maria ,  our lady wants you . 
give me my veil . 	give me my veil . 
come ,  throw it o'er my face . 	come ,  put it over my face . 
the honorable lady of the house ,  which is she ? 	which one of you is the lady of the house ? 
speak to me . 	you can speak to me . 
I shall answer for her . 	I represent her . 
your will ? 	what do you want ? 
most radiant ,  exquisite and unmatchable beauty—I pray you ,  tell me if this be the lady of the house ,  for I never saw her . 	what stunning ,  exquisite ,  and unmatchable beauty—but please ,  tell me if you’re the lady of the house ,  because I’ve never seen her . 
I would be loath to cast away my speech ,  for besides that it is excellently well penned ,  I have taken great pains to con it . 	I’d hate to waste my speech on the wrong person ,  because It’s very well written and I spent a lot of time and energy memorizing it . 
good beauties ,  let me sustain no scorn . 	beautiful ladies ,  please don’t treat me badly . 
I am very comptible ,  even to the least sinister usage . 	I’m very sensitive ,  and even the smallest bit of rudeness hurts my feelings . 
whence came you ,  sir ? 	where do you come from ,  sir ? 
I can say little more than I have studied ,  and that question’s out of my part . 	I’m sorry ,  but I memorized what I’m supposed to say here today ,  and that question isn’t part of the speech I learned . 
good gentle one ,  give me modest assurance if you be the lady of the house ,  that I may proceed in my speech . 	please ,  my lady ,  just confirm that you’re the lady of the house so I can get on with my speech . 
are you a comedian ? 	are you an actor ? 
no ,  my profound heart . 	no ,  madam . 
and yet ,  by the very fangs of malice I swear ,  I am not that I play . 	but I swear I’m not the person I’m playing . 
are you the lady of the house ? 	are you the lady of the house ? 
If I do not usurp myself ,  I am . 	I am ,  unless I somehow stole this role . 
most certain ,  if you are she ,  you do usurp yourself ,  for what is yours to bestow is not yours to reserve . 	If you’re the lady of the house ,  then it’s true you’re stealing your role ,  because what’s yours to give away is not yours to keep for yourself . 
but this is from my commission . 	but that’s not part of what I’m supposed to say . 
I will on with my speech in your praise and then show you the heart of my message . 	I’ll go on with my speech praising you ,  and then I’ll get to the point . 
come to what is important in ’t . 	get to the point now . 
I forgive you the praise . 	I’ll let you get away with skipping the praise . 
alas ,  I took great pains to study it ,  and ’tis poetical . 	that’s too bad ,  because I spent a long time memorizing it ,  and it’s poetic . 
It is the more like to be feigned . 	that means it’s more likely to be fake . 
I pray you ,  keep it in . 	please ,  keep it to yourself . 
If you be not mad ,  be gone . 	If you’re just insane ,  then get out of here . 
will you hoist sail ,  sir ? 	ready to set sail ,  sir ? 
here lies your way . 	the door’s right here . 
tell me your mind . 	tell me what you want . 
speak your office . 	tell me what it’s about . 
It alone concerns your ear . 	It’s about you . 
I bring no overture of war ,  no taxation of homage . 	I’m not bringing any declarations of war or demands for cash . 
my words are as full of peace as matter . 	I’m coming in peace . 
yet you began rudely . 	but you began so rudely . 
what are you ? 	who are you ? 
what would you ? 	what do you want ? 
how now ! 	what’s going on ? 
what news from her ? 	what have you heard from her ? 
away before me to sweet beds of flowers . 	take me to the garden . 
what I am and what I would are as secret as maidenhead . 	who I am and what I want are a secret . 
give us the place alone . 	everyone ,  please leave us alone for a moment . 
most sweet lady— A comfortable doctrine ,  and much may be said of it . 	most sweet lady— Oh ,   “ sweet ”  ! 
where lies your text ? 	where’s the passage of holy scripture that you’re basing your sermon on ? 
In Orsino’s bosom . 	In Orsino’s heart . 
In his bosom ? 	In his heart ? 
In what chapter of his bosom ? 	In what chapter and verse of his heart ? 
to answer by the method ,  in the first of his heart . 	the table of contents says it’s in the first chapter of his heart . 
oh ,  I have read it . 	oh ,  I’ve read that . 
It is heresy . 	that’s not holy ,  it’s heresy . 
have you no more to say ? 	do you have anything else to say ? 
good madam ,  let me see your face . 	madam ,  please let me see your face . 
have you any commission from your lord to negotiate with my face ? 	has your lord given you any orders to negotiate with my face ? 
you are now out of your text . 	you’re overstepping your bounds now . 
but we will draw the curtain and show you the picture . 	but I’ll open the curtain and let you see the picture . 
look you ,  sir ,  such a one I was this present . 	look ,  sir ,  this is a portrait of me as I am at this particular moment . 
Is ’t not well done ? 	It’s pretty well done ,  isn’t it ? 
twill endure wind and weather . 	wind and rain can’t wash it off . 
o ,  sir ,  I will not be so hard - hearted . 	oh ,  I’d never be that cruel . 
I will give out divers schedules of my beauty . 	I’ll write out a detailed inventory of my beauty and label every part . 
but ,  if you were the devil ,  you are fair . 	but you’d still be gorgeous even if you were as proud as the devil . 
my lord and master loves you . 	my lord loves you . 
how does he love me ? 	how does he love me ? 
your lord does know my mind . 	your lord knows what I think . 
I cannot love him . 	I can’t love him . 
yet I suppose him virtuous ,  know him noble ,  Of great estate ,  of fresh and stainless youth . 	I know he’s noble ,  rich ,  young ,  and with a fine reputation . 
In voices well divulged ,  free ,  learned ,  and valiant; And in dimension and the shape of nature A gracious person . 	people say he’s generous ,  well educated ,  and brave ,  and he’s very attractive . 
but yet I cannot love him; He might have took his answer long ago . 	but I just can’t love him . 
why ,  what would you ? 	what would you do about it ? 
make me a willow cabin at your gate And call upon my soul within the house . 	from that cabin I’d call out to my soul . 
write loyal cantons of contemned love And sing them loud even in the dead of night . 	I’d write sad songs about unrequited love and sing them loudly in the middle of the night . 
you might do much . 	not bad; you might accomplish something . 
above my fortunes ,  yet my state is well . 	but I’m still fairly high - ranking . 
I am a gentleman . 	I’m a gentleman . 
get you to your lord . 	go back to your lord . 
I cannot love him . 	I can’t love him . 
let him send no more— Unless perchance you come to me again To tell me how he takes it . 	tell him not to send any more messengers—unless you feel like coming back to tell me how he took the bad news . 
fare you well . 	goodbye . 
I thank you for your pains . 	thanks for your trouble . 
spend this for me . 	here’s some money for you . 
I am no fee’d post ,  lady . 	I’m not a paid messenger ,  my lady . 
keep your purse . 	keep your money . 
my master ,  not myself ,  lacks recompense . 	It’s my master who’s not getting the reward he deserves ,  not me . 
farewell ,  fair cruelty . 	goodbye ,  you beautiful ,  cruel woman . 
what is your parentage ?  ”   “ Above my fortunes ,  yet my state is well . 	but I’m still fairly high - ranking . 
not too fast ! 	ah ,  no . 
soft ,  soft ! 	calm down ,  calm down . 
unless the master were the man . 	If only his lord were more like him . 
how now ? 	how strange I’m feeling ! 
even so quickly may one catch the plague ? 	can someone fall in love this quickly ? 
well ,  let it be . — What ho ,  Malvolio ! 	come here ! 
here ,  madam ,  at your service . 	at your service ,  madam . 
run after that same peevish messenger ,  The county’s man . 	run after that obnoxious messenger ,  the duke’s servant . 
he left this ring behind him ,  Would I or not . 	he insisted on leaving this ring with me whether I wanted it or not . 
madam ,  I will . 	madam ,  I will . 
I do I know not what and fear to find Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind . 	I don’t know what I’m doing . 
fate ,  show thy force . 	fate ,  do your work . 
ourselves we do not owe . 	we human beings don’t control our own destinies . 
what is decreed must be ,  and be this so . 	what is fated to happen must happen . 
by your patience ,  no . 	no ,  I’d rather you stayed here . 
let me yet know of you whither you are bound . 	at least tell me where you’re going . 
no ,  sooth ,  sir . 	honestly ,  I can’t . 
my determinate voyage is mere extravagancy . 	I’m just wandering ,  with no particular destination . 
but I perceive in you so excellent a touch of modesty that you will not extort from me what I am willing to keep in . 	but I know you’d never force me to tell you things I don’t want to ,  so I should be polite and tell you what I can . 
he left behind him myself and a sister ,  both born in an hour . 	he left behind myself and my twin sister ,  who was born in the same hour as me . 
If the heavens had been pleased ,  would we had so ended ! 	If God had been willing ,  I wish we had died in the same hour too ! 
but you ,  sir ,  altered that ,  for some hour before you took me from the breach of the sea was my sister drowned . 	an hour before you pulled me out of the breaking waves ,  my sister drowned . 
alas the day ! 	how tragic ! 
a lady ,  sir ,  though it was said she much resembled me ,  was yet of many accounted beautiful . 	although many people said she looked like me ,  she was considered beautiful . 
she is drowned already ,  sir ,  with salt water ,  though I seem to drown her remembrance again with more . 	she’s been drowned in salty sea water ,  and now my salty tears are about to drown her memory all over again . 
o good Antonio ,  forgive me your trouble . 	oh ,  Antonio ,  I’m sorry I caused you so much trouble . 
If you will not murder me for my love ,  let me be your servant . 	please let me be your servant so I can be with you . 
fare you well at once . 	I like you very much . 
I am bound to the Count Orsino’s court . 	I’m going to Count Orsino’s court . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
the gentleness of all the gods go with thee ! 	I wish you all the best . 
I have many enemies in Orsino’s court ,  Else would I very shortly see thee there . 	If I didn’t have so many enemies in Orsino’s court ,  I’d go join you there . 
but ,  come what may ,  I do adore thee so That danger shall seem sport ,  and I will go . 	but who cares . 
were not you even now with the Countess Olivia ? 	excuse me ,  weren’t you with Countess Olivia just now ? 
even now ,  sir . 	yes ,  sir . 
on a moderate pace I have since arrived but hither . 	I’ve only made it this far since I left her place ,  walking at a moderate pace . 
she returns this ring to you ,  sir . 	she’s sending this ring back to you ,  sir . 
you might have saved me my pains to have taken it away yourself . 	you should’ve saved me some trouble and taken it away yourself . 
receive it so . 	here ,  take the ring . 
she took the ring of me . 	she took that ring from me . 
I’ll none of it . 	I won’t take it back . 
come ,  sir ,  you peevishly threw it to her ,  and her will is it should be so returned . 	you threw it at her rudely ,  and she wants you to take it back . 
I left no ring with her . 	I didn’t give her any ring . 
what means this lady ? 	what’s she trying to say ? 
fortune forbid my outside have not charmed her ! 	I hope she doesn’t have a crush on me ! 
she made good view of me ,  indeed so much That sure methought her eyes had lost her tongue ,  For she did speak in starts distractedly . 	It’s true she looked at me a lot ,  in fact ,  she looked at me so much that she seemed distracted ,  and couldn’t really finish her sentences very well . 
she loves me ,  sure ! 	oh ,  I really think she loves me ! 
the cunning of her passion Invites me in this churlish messenger . 	creet . 
I am the man . 	I’m the man she wants . 
If it be so ,  as ’tis ,  Poor lady ,  she were better love a dream . 	If that’s true ,  which it is ,  she might as well be in love with a dream ,  the poor lady . 
how will this fadge ? 	ah ,  how will this all turn out ? 
what will become of this ? 	what can possibly fix this situation ? 
o time ,  thou must untangle this ,  not I . 	oh ,  only time can sort out this mess . 
It is too hard a knot for me to untie ! 	I can’t figure it out by myself ! 
approach ,  Sir Andrew . 	come on ,  Sir Andrew . 
not to be abed after midnight is to be up betimes ,  and  Nay ,  my troth ,  I know not . 	and the doctors say it’s healthy to get up early— I don’t know what the doctors say . 
but I know to be up late is to be up late . 	all I know is that staying up late is staying up late . 
a false conclusion . 	a false conclusion . 
I hate it as an unfilled can . 	I hate your logic as much as I hate an empty drinking cup . 
thou'rt a scholar . 	you’re a smart guy . 
let us therefore eat and drink . 	so we should eat and drink . 
marian ,  I say ! 	maria ! 
a stoup of wine ! 	bring us some wine ! 
here comes the fool ,  i' faith . 	look ,  here comes the fool . 
how now ,  my hearts ! 	hello ,  my friends ! 
did you never see the picture of  “ We Three ”  ? 	what a pretty picture ,  three fools all together . 
welcome ,  ass . 	hello ,  you idiot . 
now let’s have a catch . 	sing us a song . 
what country ,  friends ,  is this ? 	what country is this ,  friends ? 
this is Illyria ,  lady . 	this is Illyria ,  lady . 
and what should I do in Illyria ? 	and what am I supposed to do in Illyria ? 
my brother he is in Elysium . 	my brother is in heaven . 
perchance he is not drown’d . —What think you ,  sailors ? 	or maybe there’s a chance he didn’t drown . —What do you think ,  sailors ? 
It is perchance that you yourself were saved . 	It was a total fluke that you yourself were saved . 
o ,  my poor brother ! 	oh ,  my poor brother ! 
and so perchance may he be . 	but maybe by some fluke he was saved too . 
true ,  madam . 	It’s possible ,  ma'am . 
know’st thou this country ? 	don’t give up yet . 
ay ,  madam ,  well ,  for I was bred and born Not three hours' travel from this very place . 	I was born and raised less than three hours from here . 
by my troth ,  the fool has an excellent breast . 	I swear ,  this fool has an excellent singing voice . 
my lady has a white hand ,  and the Myrmidons are no bottle - ale houses . 	my girlfriend has beautiful white hands ,  and great warriors aren’t  Ha ,  ha ! 
If one knight give a— Would you have a love song or a song of good life ? 	would you rather hear a love song or a song about the good life ? 
a love song ,  a love song . 	a love song ,  a love song . 
ay ,  ay . 	yes ,  yes . 
I care not for good life . 	I’m not interested in being good . 
excellent good ,  i' faith . 	that was excellent ,  really excellent . 
good ,  good . 	good ,  very good . 
a mellifluous voice ,  as I am true knight . 	a beautiful voice ,  I swear . 
a contagious breath . 	his breath stinks . 
very sweet and contagious ,  i' faith . 	yes ,  it stinks very sweetly . 
shall we rouse the night owl in a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver ? 	should we sing a round to wake up the night owl ? 
shall we do that ? 	should we do that ? 
an you love me ,  let’s do ’t . 	let’s go for it . 
most certain . 	absolutely . 
let our catch be  “ Thou Knave .  ”   “ Hold thy peace ,  thou knave ,  ”  knight ? 	let’s dance to  “ You Jerk .  ”  You mean ,   “ Shut up ,  you jerk ”  ? 
I shall be constrained in ’t to call thee knave ,  knight . 	so I’ll be forced to call you a jerk ,  Sir Andrew . 
It begins  “ Hold thy peace .  ”  I shall never begin if I hold my peace . 	It starts ,   “ Shut up .  ”  I’ll never be able to start if I shut up . 
good ,  i' faith . 	that’s true . 
come ,  begin . 	but come on ,  start . 
what a caterwauling do you keep here ! 	you’re making a terrible racket out here ! 
If my lady have not called up her steward Malvolio and bid him turn you out of doors ,  never trust me . 	lady Olivia told her servant Malvolio to kick you out of the house . 
for the love o' God ,  peace ! 	for God’s sake ,  shut up ! 
my masters ,  are you mad ? 	are you all crazy ? 
or what are you ? 	what’s wrong with you ? 
have you no wit ,  manners ,  nor honesty but to gabble like tinkers at this time of night ? 	are you making all this noise at this time of night because you have no manners ,  or because you’re just stupid ? 
Is there no respect of place ,  persons ,  nor time in you ? 	don’t you have any respect for anything ? 
we did keep time ,  sir ,  in our catches . 	we respected the beat of the song ,  sir . 
sneck up ! 	so shut up ! 
sir Toby ,  I must be round with you . 	sir Toby ,  I’ve got to be frank with you . 
my lady bade me tell you ,  that ,  though she harbors you as her kinsman ,  she’s nothing allied to your disorders . 	my lady told me to tell you that while she lets you stay at her house because you’re a relative ,  she doesn’t approve of your behavior . 
If you can separate yourself and your misdemeanors ,  you are welcome to the house . 	If you can shape up ,  you’re welcome to stay in the house . 
If not ,  an it would please you to take leave of her ,  she is very willing to bid you farewell . 	If you can’t ,  and would prefer to leave ,  she’s very willing to say goodbye to you . 
nay ,  good Sir Toby . 	no ,  good Sir Toby . 
out o' tune ,  sir . 	that’s out of tune ,  sir . 
you lie . 	you lie . 
yes ,  by Saint Anne ,  and ginger shall be hot i' the mouth too . 	they certainly will . 
thou'rt i' the right . 	you’re right . 
go shake your ears ! 	go and wiggle your ears ! 
twere as good a deed as to drink when a man’s a - hungry ,  to challenge him the field and then to break promise with him and make a fool of him . 	I could challenge him to a duel and then not show up . 
do ’t ,  knight . 	do that . 
I’ll write thee a challenge . 	I’ll write a letter challenging him to a duel on your behalf . 
or I’ll deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth . 	or I’ll deliver your insults to his face . 
sweet Sir Toby ,  be patient for tonight . 	dear Sir Toby ,  don’t do anything rash tonight . 
since the youth of the count’s was today with thy lady ,  she is much out of quiet . 	ever since the Duke’s messenger visited Olivia ,  she’s been upset . 
for Monsieur Malvolio ,  let me alone with him . 	as for Monsieur Malvolio ,  let me take care of him . 
I know I can do it . 	I know I can do it . 
o ,  if I thought that ,  I’d beat him like a dog ! 	oh ,  I’ll beat him up for that ! 
I have no exquisite reason for ’t ,  but I have reason good enough . 	I don’t have any  “ brilliant ”  reason for it ,  but I have a good enough reason . 
and on that vice in him will my revenge find notable cause to work . 	that’s the weakness I’ll use to get revenge on him . 
what wilt thou do ? 	what are you going to do ? 
I can write very like my lady your niece: on a forgotten matter we can hardly make distinction of our hands . 	I can make my handwriting look just like Lady Olivia’s: she
excellent ! 	excellent ! 
I have ’t in my nose too . 	I like it too . 
he shall think ,  by the letters that thou wilt drop ,  that they come from my niece ,  and that she’s in love with him . 	he’ll think these letters are from Olivia and that she’s in love with him . 
my purpose is ,  indeed ,  a horse of that color . 	yes ,  that’s the idea . 
and your horse now would make him an ass . 	he’s going to look like a total idiot . 
ass ,  I doubt not . 	absolutely ,  you idiot . 
oh ,  ’twill be admirable ! 	this is going to be great ! 
sport royal ,  I warrant you . 	It’s going to be fun ,  I promise . 
I know my physic will work with him . 	I know my medicine will work on him . 
I will plant you two ,  and let the fool make a third ,  where he shall find the letter . 	I’ll have you two hide—and the fool too—right where he’ll find the letter . 
observe his construction of it . 	watch his reaction . 
for this night ,  to bed ,  and dream on the event . 	meanwhile ,  let’s go to bed and dream about this . 
farewell . 	good night . 
good night ,  Penthesilea . 	good night ,  you amazing woman ,  you . 
before me ,  she’s a good wench . 	she’s a fine woman ,  all right . 
she’s a beagle ,  true - bred ,  and one that adores me . 	she’s a good little woman ,  and she adores me . 
what o' that ? 	what about it ? 
I was adored once too . 	someone adored me once ,  too . 
let’s to bed ,  knight . 	let’s go to bed ,  knight . 
thou hadst need send for more money . 	tomorrow you need to get more money sent to you . 
If thou hast her not i' the end ,  call me  “ Cut .  ”   If I do not ,  never trust me ,  take it how you will . 	I know I will too ,  if it’s the last thing I do . 
tis too late to go to bed now . 	It’s too late to go to bed now . 
give me some music . 	play me some music . 
he is not here ,  so please your lordship ,  that should sing it . 	sir ,  the person who should sing that song isn’t here . 
who was it ? 	who was it ? 
he is about the house . 	he’s somewhere else in the house . 
thou dost speak masterly . 	you’re absolutely right . 
my life upon ’t ,  young though thou art ,  thine eye Hath stay’d upon some favor that it loves . 	I’d bet my life that ,  as young as you are ,  you’ve fallen in love with someone . 
hath it not ,  boy ? 	haven’t you ,  boy ? 
a little ,  by your favor . 	a little bit . 
what kind of woman is’t ? 	what kind of woman is she ? 
of your complexion . 	she’s a lot like you . 
she is not worth thee ,  then . 	she’s not good enough for you ,  then . 
what years ,  i' faith ? 	how old is she ? 
about your years ,  my lord . 	about as old as you are ,  my lord . 
too old by heaven . 	that’s definitely too old . 
let still the woman take An elder than herself . 	a woman should always pick an older man . 
I think it well ,  my lord . 	I think you’re right ,  sir . 
then let thy love be younger than thyself ,  Or thy affection cannot hold the bent . 	so find someone younger to love ,  or you won’t be able to maintain your feelings . 
for women are as roses ,  whose fair flower Being once displayed ,  doth fall that very hour . 	women are like roses: the moment their beauty is in full bloom ,  it’s about to decay . 
and so they are . 	that’s true . 
alas ,  that they are so ,  To die even when they to perfection grow ! 	It’s too bad their beauty fades right when it reaches perfection ! 
who governs here ? 	who’s the ruler here ? 
a noble duke ,  in nature As in name . 	a duke who is noble in name and character . 
what is his name ? 	what’s his name ? 
orsino . 	orsino . 
orsino . 	orsino . 
I have heard my father name him . 	I’ve heard my father mention him . 
he was a bachelor then . 	when I first heard about him ,  he was still a bachelor . 
for but a month ago I went from hence ,  And then ’twas fresh in murmur—as ,  you know ,  What great ones do the less will prattle of— That he did seek the love of fair Olivia . 	but there was a rumor—you know ,  people always gossip about royalty—that he was in love with the beautiful Olivia . 
what’s she ? 	who’s she ? 
oh ,  that I served that lady And might not be delivered to the world ,  Till I had made mine own occasion mellow ,  What my estate is . 	I wish I could work for that lady ! 
are you ready ,  sir ? 	are you ready ,  sir ? 
no pains ,  sir . 	no trouble ,  sir . 
I take pleasure in singing ,  sir . 	I like singing . 
I’ll pay thy pleasure then . 	then I’ll pay you for doing what you like . 
give me now leave to leave thee . 	you may leave . 
farewell . 	goodbye . 
let all the rest give place . 	all the rest of you can leave too . 
once more ,  Cesario ,  Get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty . 	cesario ,  go visit that cruel Olivia one more time . 
tell her my love ,  more noble than the world ,  Prizes not quantity of dirty lands; The parts that fortune hath bestowed upon her ,  Tell her ,  I hold as giddily as fortune; But ’tis that miracle and queen of gems That nature pranks her in attracts my soul . 	tell her my love is purer than anything else in the whole world ,  and has nothing to do with her property . 
but if she cannot love you ,  sir ? 	but if she can’t love you ,  sir ? 
I cannot be so answer’d . 	I refuse to accept that . 
sooth ,  but you must . 	but you have to . 
say that some lady ,  as perhaps there is ,  Hath for your love a great a pang of heart As you have for Olivia . 	just imagine some lady might exist who loves you as powerfully and agonizingly as you love Olivia . 
must she not then be answered ? 	shouldn’t she just accept that ? 
there is no woman’s sides Can bide the beating of so strong a passion As love doth give my heart . 	no woman is strong enough to put up with the kind of intense passion I feel . 
no woman’s heart So big ,  to hold so much . 	no woman’s heart is big enough to hold all my love . 
they lack retention . 	they eat too much and get indigestion and nausea . 
alas ,  their love may be called appetite ,  No motion of the liver ,  but the palate ,  That suffer surfeit ,  cloyment ,  and revolt; But mine is all as hungry as the sea ,  And can digest as much . 	It’s as all - consuming and insatiable as the sea ,  and it can swallow as much as the sea can . 
make no compare Between that love a woman can bear me And that I owe Olivia . 	don’t compare a woman’s love for a man with my love for Olivia . 
ay ,  but I know— What dost thou know ? 	yes ,  but I know— What do you know ? 
too well what love women to men may owe . 	I know a lot about the love women can feel for men . 
In faith ,  they are as true of heart as we . 	actually ,  their hearts are as sensitive and loyal as ours are . 
my father had a daughter loved a man As it might be ,  perhaps ,  were I a woman ,  I should your lordship . 	my father had a daughter who loved a man in the same way that I might love you ,  if I were a woman . 
and what’s her history ? 	and what’s her story ? 
a blank ,  my lord . 	there was no story ,  my lord . 
was not this love indeed ? 	doesn’t that sound like true love ? 
but died thy sister of her love ,  my boy ? 	but did your sister die of love ? 
I am all the daughters of my father’s house ,  And all the brothers too—and yet I know not . 	I am the only daughter in my father’s family ,  and all the brothers too—but I’m not completely sure about that . 
sir ,  shall I to this lady ? 	anyway ,  sir ,  should I go see the lady ? 
come thy ways ,  Signior Fabian . 	come along with us ,  Signor Fabian . 
nay ,  I’ll come . 	I’m coming ,  don’t worry . 
If I lose a scruple of this sport ,  let me be boiled to death with melancholy . 	If I miss this ,  let me be boiled alive . 
wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly rascally sheep - biter come by some notable shame ? 	won’t you be glad to see that rascal dog humiliated ? 
I would exult ,  man . 	I’ll be thrilled . 
you know ,  he brought me out o' favor with my lady about a bear - baiting here . 	you know ,  he got me in trouble with the lady of the house once when I arranged a bear - baiting here . 
to anger him ,  we’ll have the bear again ,  and we will fool him black and blue . 	we’ll have another bear - baiting just to make him angry ,  and we’ll mock him till he’s black and blue . 
shall we not ,  Sir Andrew ? 	won’t we ,  Sir Andrew ? 
an we do not ,  it is pity of our lives . 	If we don’t ,  it’ll be the biggest disappointment of our lives . 
here comes the little villain . 	here comes the little villain herself . 
how now ,  my metal of India ? 	how are you ,  my golden girl ? 
get you all three into the boxtree . 	hide behind the boxwood hedge ,  all three of you . 
malvolio’s coming down this walk . 	malvolio’s coming down the path . 
he has been yonder i' the sun practising behavior to his own shadow this half hour . 	he’s been over there practicing how to act for the past half hour . 
observe him ,  for the love of mockery ,  for I know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of him . 	this letter’s going to turn him into a starry - eyed idiot . 
